<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE TEI.2 SYSTEM "http://www.gutenberg.org/tei/marcello/0.4/dtd/pgtei.dtd" [

<!ENTITY u5  "http://www.tei-c.org/Lite/">

]>

<TEI.2 lang="en">
<teiHeader>
  <fileDesc>
    <titleStmt>
      <title>Our Monthly Devotions</title>
      <author><name reg="Lings, Albert A.">Albert A. Lings</name></author>
    </titleStmt>
    <editionStmt>
      <edition n="1">Edition 1</edition>
    </editionStmt>
    <publicationStmt>
      <publisher>Project Gutenberg</publisher>
      <date>December 21, 2015</date>
      <idno type="etext-no">50739</idno>
      <availability>
        <p>This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
        most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
        whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
        the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
        www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
        to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.</p>
      </availability>
    </publicationStmt>
    <sourceDesc>
      <bibl>
        Created electronically.
      </bibl>
    </sourceDesc>
  </fileDesc>
  <encodingDesc>
  </encodingDesc>
  <profileDesc>
    <langUsage>
      <language id="en"></language>
    </langUsage>
  </profileDesc>
  <revisionDesc>
    <change>
      <date value="2015-12-21">December 21, 2015</date>
      <respStmt>
        <name>
            Produced by Juliet Sutherland, David King, and the Online
            Distributed Proofreading Team at &lt;http://www.pgdp.net/&gt;.
        </name>
      </respStmt>
      <item>Project Gutenberg TEI edition 1</item>
    </change>
  </revisionDesc>
</teiHeader>

<pgExtensions>
  <pgStyleSheet>
    .boxed           { x-class: boxed }
    .shaded          { x-class: shaded }
    .rules           { x-class: rules; rules: all }
    .indent          { margin-left: 2 }
    .bold            { font-weight: bold }
    .italic          { font-style: italic }
    .smallcaps       { font-variant: small-caps }
  </pgStyleSheet>

  <pgCharMap formats="txt.iso-8859-1">
    <char id="U0x2014">
      <charName>mdash</charName>
      <desc>EM DASH</desc>
      <mapping>--</mapping>
    </char>
    <char id="U0x2003">
      <charName>emsp</charName>
      <desc>EM SPACE</desc>
      <mapping>  </mapping>
    </char>
    <char id="U0x2026">
      <charName>hellip</charName>
      <desc>HORIZONTAL ELLIPSIS</desc>
      <mapping>...</mapping>
    </char>
  </pgCharMap>
</pgExtensions>

<text lang="en">
  <front>
    <div>
      <divGen type="pgheader" />
    </div>
    <div>
      <divGen type="encodingDesc" />
    </div>

    <div rend="page-break-before: always">
      <p rend="font-size: xx-large; text-align: center">Our Monthly Devotions</p>
      <p rend="font-size: xx-large; text-align: center">By</p>
      <p rend="font-size: xx-large; text-align: center">Very Rev. Dean A. A. Lings</p>
      <p rend="font-size: xx-large; text-align: center">Author of <q>Our Favorite Devotions,</q> <q>Our Favorite Novenas,</q> etc.</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">Benziger Brothers</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">New York, Cincinnati, Chicago</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">1899</p>
    </div>
    <div rend="page-break-before: always">
      <head>Contents</head>
      <divGen type="toc" />
    </div>

  </front>
<body>

<div>
<p rend='text-align: center'>
<figure url='images/cover.jpg' rend='width: 30%'>
<figDesc>Cover Art</figDesc>
</figure>
</p>
<p>
[Transcriber's Note: The above cover image was produced by the submitter at
Distributed Proofreaders, and is being placed into the public domain.]
</p>
</div>

<pb n='i'/><anchor id='Pgi'/>

<div>
<p rend="text-align: center">
  <figure url="images/frontis.png" rend="width: 50%">
    <head>He was wounded for our iniquities, he was bruised for our
sins.&mdash;Is. liii. 5.</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
Nihil Obstat.
</p>

<p>
THOMAS L. KINKEAD,
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Censor Librorum</hi>.
</p>

<p>
Imprimatur.
</p>

<p>
† MICHAEL AUGUSTINE,
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Archbishop of New York</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>New York</hi>, May 10, 1899.
</p>

<p>
Copyright, 1899, by <hi rend='smallcaps'>Benziger Brothers</hi>.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='003'/><anchor id='Pg003'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Preface.</head>

<p>
The Church, desirous of filling our minds with
pious thoughts from the beginning to the end
of the year, has encouraged, and in some cases designated,
certain devotions to be practised, and sets
aside a whole month in which the prevailing thought
ought to be centred on a certain devotion. Not
that the Church has by any decree appointed a special
devotion for any particular time, except in the cases
of Advent and Lent; but the universal piety of the
people has adopted them; and each month has its
particular devotion.
</p>

<p>
The Church celebrates the feast of the Sacred
Heart in June, and during this month we may offer
our prayers in honor of the Sacred Heart of Jesus,
that our souls may be thoroughly imbued with the
beauty of this devotion.
</p>

<p>
The Church celebrates the feast of the Holy
Rosary on the first Sunday of October, and our
Holy Father Leo XIII. has ordered that the Rosary
be recited each day during the month.
</p>

<p>
The feast of the Guardian Angel is celebrated on
the second of October; thus two devotions are practised
<pb n='004'/><anchor id='Pg004'/>
during this month. The Church has arranged
some special devotion for each month by which our
confidence in God is increased, and our love of holy
Church intensified. What a rich treasure of piety
and love for God may a good Catholic not gather
from one year of such holy practices!
</p>

</div>

<pb n='011'/><anchor id='Pg011'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>January. The Holy Infancy.</head>

<p>
The month of the holy infancy of Our Lord is January.
The Lord was born in December as we know, but so
late in the month that we must take the beginning of the new
year and consecrate the first part of the year to God. We
begin with the childhood of Our Lord in our devotions, that
we may grow as He did in grace before God and man. The
holy Infant is laid in our arms this month, that we may contemplate
Him and learn holy lessons. What are these lessons?
The goodness of God towards us&mdash;the mercy and kindness of
the Child Jesus for us; for His infancy is infinitely meritorious
before God, and all grace comes to us on account of Christ,
Who has been an Infant among us. We should be like
children in our confidence in God, Who has created us and
will not make us stand greater trials than we are able to bear.
We should not care over much for the things of this world;
we should not depend so much on our own efforts; but with
filial resignation we should say to God: <q>You want this done,
and you want one to do it. Well, then, give me the grace, the
intelligence, the will, and I will do it in such a manner as will
be worthy of God.</q> The whole month can be spent in meditating
on these virtues; be assured they are worth being
learned, and will repay you for the trouble of practising them.
</p>

<pb n='012'/><anchor id='Pg012'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Considerations and Prayers for Every Day.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>First Day.</head>

<p>
Consider the Holy Family on this day. They
rise early to make preparations to proceed to
the Temple to fulfil the law of God given to Moses,
that every male child of the Jewish nation should be
circumcised. Let us accompany them in spirit to the
Temple, and witness God's providence working
plainly in behalf of His divine Son. To-day the
Child Jesus is circumcised. A painful operation is
performed on the body of the pure and holy Babe
which was formed in the womb of the Virgin Mary.
Jesus knew that by this ceremony He subjected
Himself to the Law, and the observance of all the
dictates of a life regulated by it. Be you also subject
to the law of God, hard though it may be to man's
corrupt nature. The life of a Christian will be a
difficult one if you are not good and pious. It will
be hard for you to pray, to fast, to go to Mass, or
confession. Only by submitting to the law of God
will you learn to bear your burdens patiently, willingly,
and joyfully. Remember you are not carrying
your cross alone, for the great Bearer of the cross,
Our Lord Jesus Christ, will help you: He Who has
said, <q>My yoke is sweet and My burden light.</q>
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O God, Who, by the fruitful virginity of Blessed
Mary, hast bestowed on mankind the rewards
of eternal salvation, grant, we beseech Thee, that we
may experience the intercession of her through whom
we have had the happiness to receive the Author of
life, Our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='013'/><anchor id='Pg013'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Second Day.</head>

<p>
Jesus underwent the circumcision as an act of redemption.
He was carried forth by His holy
Mother to begin the way of the cross, and from that
moment until the day of His death He suffered
physical pain. You may here form many thoughts
on this period in the life of this holy Child, which
will console you in your sufferings. Be not cast down
in your struggle after a livelihood, be not impatient in
poverty and suffering, for by these Jesus has redeemed
the world. These crosses will one day bring you to
heaven. All humanity from childhood has the vicissitudes
of nature and fortune to combat. Cruel indeed
is the fate of some children: poverty, neglect,
sickness, the death of parents, and other misfortunes,
leave them often in a deplorable state. But there is
a Providence watching over them; not a sparrow
falls from the housetop without the will of the
heavenly Father. At the same time those who have
the means should be interested in God's poor, and
seek to help them in all their necessities.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Jesus, when Thou givest me such touching
proof of Thy love, could I remain cold towards
Thee? No! it is not possible. I will love Thee,
then, O my God, with a love which nothing will
daunt or repel.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Third Day.</head>

<p>
At the presentation of the Lord in the Temple
were present Simeon and Anna; they were
faithful people, and were permitted to witness the
solemn entry of Our Lord into the Temple. They
<pb n='014'/><anchor id='Pg014'/>
were old and had served the Lord God with faithfulness
all their days, and were now waiting for the
coming of the Messias. On this day their fidelity
was partially rewarded. It was certainly a great
grace to be allowed to witness the presentation of
Jesus to God, His Father, and this great reward for a
good life was followed afterwards by eternal happiness
in heaven. Be faithful, then, to the teachings of
God in His holy Church. Begin in your youth, or
at least when the grace of God visits you. Never
cease to trust in God during your whole life, so that
you, too, may be received into the heavenly kingdom
as a reward for your fidelity. Pray always, as Simeon
and Anna did, who never left the Temple but remained
there in prayer and fasting, waiting for the
consolation of Israel.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O my God, how Thou didst love me on the day
of Thy presentation! Oh, how well Thou dost
teach me thereby what love is when it burns the
heart! O my God! come and consume me, come
and take possession of my whole being, so that I may
belong entirely to Thee. Let Thy good pleasure
dispose of me as Thou willest. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fourth Day.</head>

<p>
On the occasion of the circumcision, the name of
Jesus was given to Our Lord. He was called
Jesus, the Redeemer: a name which was given to Him
by His Father and announced to man by an angel.
Let this holy name be on your lips&mdash;it will be to you a
light, guiding you on your way through this valley of
darkness. Let it be your food, to strengthen you on
<pb n='015'/><anchor id='Pg015'/>
your journey to your heavenly home. Let it be a
watchword at the end of your life, by which you may
open the gates of heaven. The name of Jesus is a
powerful one; it is the conqueror of death, the victor
over hell. You are a follower of Jesus, therefore you
ought to show yourself an enthusiastic follower, and
love to repeat that sacred name. The name of Jesus
piously said will strengthen our good resolutions, and
our resistance against temptations. When the end of
life approaches, and the darkness of despair comes
over us because we have done so little in the hours
of daylight, when we should have worked, the merits
of Jesus will give us hope, for He came to this earth
to suffer for us, to give us hope, and to supply the
deficiency of our efforts.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Oh, may the adorable name of Jesus be the sweet
and daily music of my soul and the seal of my
heart; and when, in the agony and cold sweat of
death, I shall give the last look for mercy, may the
parting sigh of my soul be Jesus. Amen, sweet Jesus,
Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fifth Day.</head>

<p>
The name of Jesus must not only be on our lips,
but it must also be indelibly engraven in our
hearts. You have heard perhaps in the life of that
blessed Dominican, Suso, that he cut over his heart
the name of Jesus. In this name you can overcome
all things. In this name you will be rich in grace
and strength, you will be victorious over all temptations
and successful in all your labors. Why
should you not have the name of Jesus in your heart?
<pb n='016'/><anchor id='Pg016'/>
St. Paul has said: <q>Whosoever shall call upon
the name of the Lord, shall be saved.</q> You remember
the exclamation of the great Apostle, <q>If any
man love not Our Lord Jesus Christ, let him be
anathema.</q> There is great peace and comfort in
the name of Jesus; it is this which enables pious
people to remain faithful for long years in dryness of
the spiritual life. It is this which gives us courage
to do good actions, not for an earthly gain, but for
Jesus, and the reward of His society for all eternity.
Let us never pronounce it except with confidence,
respect, love, and delight.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O sweet Jesus! O loving Jesus! O Jesus, Son
of the Virgin Mary, full of piety and of love!
O sweet Jesus, according to Thy great mercy have
mercy on me; blot out my iniquities, and look with
tenderness upon me, a miserable sinner invoking
Thy holy name, Jesus. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Sixth Day.</head>

<p>
The Lord has commended His holy name to every
Christian as a precious jewel which he is to
use to obtain mercy and grace. <q>That whatsoever
you shall ask of the Father in My name, He may
give it you.</q> We all belong to the army of the
Lord, stand under His banner, and are supposed to
be ever ready to make battle in His cause. How
often have not you received the body and blood of the
Lord? Think, then, what efficacy your prayers have
when you appear before God, with the sign of the
blood of Jesus on your soul; you then pray with a
power to which nothing is equal, for not only do
<pb n='017'/><anchor id='Pg017'/>
you pray, but Christ prays in and by you. By this
holy name God is honored, as He is honored in His
adorable Son. <q>God hath given Him a name which
is above all names.</q>&mdash;Phil. ii. 9. The Lord is
always an intercessor for us&mdash;it is His office of Redeemer
and Saviour that has merited this name, by
His life on earth and His death on the cross. To-day
is the feast of the Epiphany, the manifestation of
the Lord Himself to the Gentiles. Let us thank
God during the day by frequent outbursts of love,
for our vocation to the faith in the person of the
Magi.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O God! Who didst this day reveal Thy only-begotten
Son to the Gentiles by the guidance of a
star; grant in Thy mercy, that we, who already know
Thee by faith, may be brought to contemplate the
beauty of Thy majesty, through the same Christ
Our Lord. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Seventh Day.</head>

<p>
The Lord has shown Himself to you also, as He
did to the three Wise Men from the East who
represented you on the feast of Epiphany. You have
had mercy shown you on this day because now you
have the right to choose the true faith, and you
should be thankful for this grace. You have had a
singular privilege extended to you, which all Christians
do not enjoy to the fulness. There are among
us many who have not the consolation of dying in
the arms of Jesus. They cannot claim that He said
to them, <q>I am the Resurrection and the Life.</q>
We know that they, too, are hastening with us to
<pb n='018'/><anchor id='Pg018'/>
the Last Judgment, but with what a difference!
When a misfortune befalls these men in life they have
no peace of mind; when a humiliation meets them,
the ungentle spirit of nature is aroused in them at being
despised. They are unhappy in privations, impatient
in disputes, and they are selfish. The life of
those who think not of Christ is full of misery, disappointment,
and dissatisfaction; they sit in the
darkness of heathenism; but you who have the faith
find relief in all your ills. Be not one of those who
by their sinfulness deserve to be deserted by God.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Grant, we beseech Thee, O Lord, in Thy
heavenly mercy, the prayers of Thy suppliant
people; that they may perceive where their duty
lies, and be enabled to accomplish whatsoever tasks
are necessary for their salvation. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Eighth Day.</head>

<p>
Our faith ought to be pure and precious as the
gold which the wise kings offered at the throne
of God. You ought, then, to hold fast the faith of
Jesus Christ, which is preserved in the Catholic
Church. Learn your faith, learn the proofs of it;
you will be a more fervent adherent to the chair of
St. Peter and be well instructed in everything that
concerns the Church. You will pray for our Holy
Father, the Pope, and for holy Mother Church in
these troublous times. If love is a part of that
purity of faith, read nothing, listen to nothing which
is against your faith; do not belong to societies that
are condemned by the Church, for they are enemies
of God's religion. Your faith must be a lively one;
<pb n='019'/><anchor id='Pg019'/>
give signs of it in your actions. Sweet-smelling as
the incense in the hands of the kings must be our
faith. Every one should see that we are good and
stanch Catholics; education or riches or social standing
should not be an obstacle to our humble practice
of our religion. What is there more beautiful than a
well-educated man practising the Catholic faith according
to the laws of the Church? Unhappily the
rich and the learned are sometimes ashamed of the
Church, leaving it to the poor and ignorant to be
good Catholics.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O my God, I thank Thee for the inestimable
gift of faith which Thou hast bestowed upon
me. Grant that I may always acknowledge this Thy
mercy with thanksgiving; and this not only in words,
but in making a good use of it. This grace I ask
through Thy sweet name, Jesus. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ninth Day.</head>

<p>
In trying to lead a good Christian life you will
often meet with contradictions and persecutions,
even from your associates. But the Wise
Men included the myrrh of mortification among
their gifts. He who wants to lead a life of purity
will necessarily meet with many persecutions and
crosses, and only when he has taken up the cross
can he follow the divine Redeemer. The faith of
Christ cannot exist without the bitter herb of mortification.
This faith is the power that conquers the
world, and the world's insults. Let us then be firm
in our faith as the three kings were in all their trials,
for they had many a one to encounter before they
<pb n='020'/><anchor id='Pg020'/>
found the cave of Bethlehem. Let us show our
appreciation then by our zeal and our holy lives.
<q>He is my God, and I will glorify Him: the God
of my father, and I will exalt Him.</q>&mdash;Exod. xv. 2.
The holy man Job will be an example to us as to
how we should serve God in trials and tribulations.
Though the Lord allowed great sufferings to come
upon him, and precisely because he had been good,
still he remained true and firm and would not make
a compromise with the devil, his persecutor. Job
was thankful for everything that came from the hands
of God. He praised God for it all his days.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O my God, how good it is to serve Thee thus, and
to give ourselves wholly to Thee. Give to me
as Thou didst to the Magi the spirit of wisdom, of
prayer, and of sacrifice, so that, following Thee
through all my life, I may reach a happy eternity.
Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Tenth Day.</head>

<p>
It is a singular fact that the star disappeared at
Jerusalem, though that was not, as yet, the
place where the new-born King of the Jews was to
be looked for. Herod was the temporal king of
Jerusalem; the high priest and the doctors of the
Law were also there. As this was the seat of the
religion of the people of God, here were made many
prophecies that were to be accomplished. We
should have thought that here also the star would
have been seen. Jerusalem, however, remains in
darkness, the people that were to be the recipients
of God's promises are passed over, and the great
<pb n='021'/><anchor id='Pg021'/>
grace of vocation was given to men who knew
nothing of the testament of God&mdash;to pagans. The
star appears to them and illuminates the darkness in
which they find themselves, and calls them to a
heavenly light. Our Lord explained this Himself
afterwards, when He said that from the rising to
the setting of the sun would come those who would
sit at His banquet, while the <q>children of the
kingdom</q> should go out empty-handed, for they
deserved no better treatment because of their infidelity
and presumption.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O God, Who didst permit the children of Israel so
often to sink under the trials which Thou didst
send them, and so often to offend by yielding under
temptation: have regard, I beseech Thee, to Thy
servant, and assist me with heavenly strength that I
may have patience and courage under all the trials
of life. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Eleventh Day.</head>

<p>
We are similar in condition to Jerusalem: We
have the promise of God, we have the Messias
in our midst, on our altars. Jerusalem was the
gay capital of the Jewish nation, and it had no time
to attend to the call of God. We also will meet
the same fate that overtook that unfortunate city,
which knew not the day of its visitation. Our Lord
<q>came unto His own, and His own received Him
not.</q> We are too busy with the things of this
world to give a few thoughts to God; we do not
realize the precious gifts of Our Lord, or of His
sacred presence, and so we will be allowed to go
<pb n='022'/><anchor id='Pg022'/>
forth empty-handed; strangers will take our places
in the heavenly kingdom, while we shall sit in darkness
for all eternity. The Lord will find faithful
followers among strangers who have not our knowledge;
they are guided only by a star that does not
speak. They follow it and are rewarded; they follow
it because they acknowledge the fact that they
stand in need of a leader and guide.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Help me, O my God, and defend me from all
dangers; let Thy heavenly light dart upon
my soul amidst all its darkness; let faith be its
guide, and support it with hope. Behold, I now
protest that I renounce all kinds of suggestions that
are injurious to that faith and hope which I am
bound to have in Thee. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twelfth Day.</head>

<p>
Mary was found with the Child by the Magi;
she it was who received the gifts for the
Lord. There sat Mary as on a throne, having the
Infant Jesus in her lap, and the Wise Men fell down
and adored Him. How kingly seemed to them the
poverty of that Babe! how right royal that sinless
Mother's lap, on which He was enthroned! We,
too, have arrived at the stable of Bethlehem in our
meditations. Mary is there, holding out towards us
also her divine Son. Through her He has become
ours in holy communion, ours when we are faithful
servants of this good Master. Mary is always with
Jesus; we cannot think of the sacred humanity of
Christ without thinking also of the Mother who
gave Him birth. How far removed is the Mother
<pb n='023'/><anchor id='Pg023'/>
from the Son? Let us then bow down in humility
and adoration before the Child who is Our God;
but let us also look up to Mary. She teaches us
God as we never could else have learned Him.
The Child Jesus seems to understand better than we
that the caresses which are poured out to Him are
also intended for us. Let us look with gratitude at
this good Mother of Jesus, who is to be our Mother
because she has taken us under her protection, and
presents our petitions to the divine Infant, her
sweet Son.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Mary, my good Mother, I cast myself into thy
arms: obtain for me from thy divine Son the
virtues of humility and charity, great purity of heart,
of body, and of soul, final perseverance in good, the
gift of fervor in prayer, a pious life, and a happy
death. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirteenth Day.</head>

<p>
Mary is present at our visit to Jesus, to receive
the gifts that we are about to bring to the
Infant at this sacred season, when we celebrate the
feast of Epiphany. We are going to offer to Jesus,
through Mary, a gift of gold. Gold is the most
precious and the most sought after possession in the
world. Whatever we have most precious, then,
we will give to Him: our attachment to our family,
our inclinations, our prejudices, our possessions, we
will lay at the feet of Jesus, so that Mary may point
them out to this sacred Babe, and show Him how
generous we have been to make a sacrifice of the
dearest things we have on earth. The man of the
<pb n='024'/><anchor id='Pg024'/>
world makes supreme efforts to gain gold, so we will
make supreme efforts to bring our whole being, with
all its energies, as a sacrifice to Him; our hearts
with all their inclinations will be consecrated to the
service of Jesus Christ. We will love Him not only
in Himself, but in our neighbor; we will succor
Him in the person of the poor, and in those even of
whom we have to complain; and that on account of
His words, <q>As long as you did it to one of these,
My least brethren, you did it to Me.</q>&mdash;Matt.
xxv. 40.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O my Mother, give me Jesus as thou didst give
Him to the holy Wise Men. Obtain for me
a fervent heart to desire Jesus; a pure and humble
heart to receive Jesus; a constant heart, that I may
never, by the least wilful sin, sadden His loving
Heart. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fourteenth Day.</head>

<p>
During these days make the sacrifice of your heart
a persevering, loving, patient sacrifice. You
are not going to retain anything of this heart, you
are not going to divide your love. Jesus has given
Himself entirely to you; He has been presented to
you by the hands of Mary. He has made you a
Christian, that you may take advantage of this privilege
of enjoying Him as often as you please. You
can be on familiar terms with Him, you can unite Him
to your heart in holy communion, when He will enter
your soul and be such a gracious, noble guest. By
your Christian character He has privileged you to
participate in all the sacraments of the Church. He
<pb n='025'/><anchor id='Pg025'/>
confirms you in your Christianity; He pardons your
transgressions when you have fallen, and when, with
sorrow in your heart, you wish to rise again; He
claims you as His at the end of your life by anointing
you in your last sickness: He claims you in fact, body
and soul, for His own glory.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Most sweet Infant Jesus, I acknowledge Thee my
benefactor. I return Thee thanks for whatever
I possess, and I heartily beg Thy grace, that I
may make good use of the benefits which through
Thy great mercy I enjoy. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fifteenth Day.</head>

<p>
You are going to appear before Jesus and Mary
during these days with the incense of the Magi,
which they presented to Him as a tribute of praise;
they acknowledged Jesus as their God. Incense is
offered to God alone; it is a prayer in itself, and
ascends with a pleasant odor. You are going to stand
before Jesus offering your incense of prayer and adoration.
You have your daily prayers to say; in fact
the whole day should be a prayer, which should insert
itself into all your actions. How noble will not such
a day appear to you when you look back on it! Oh,
that all your days were like this one, full of holy joy,
peace and happiness; such a happiness as you cannot
find in earthly pleasure and enjoyment. Mary will
receive this gift of prayer for her divine Son, and
point out to Him the pious Christian that has brought
the same sacrifice as did the kings of the East&mdash;the
incense of prayer. How pleased will be our sweet
Jesus to receive this gift from our hands, and in exchange
<pb n='026'/><anchor id='Pg026'/>
He will give us the gift of piety, thus enabling
us to love God alone and to despise all else.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Hail, most sweet Jesus, Son of God and of
Mary, I love Thee with my whole soul, and
above all things, because Thou art infinitely worthy
of all love. I firmly resolve by Thy grace to sin no
more, and henceforth to avoid all occasions of sin.
Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Sixteenth Day.</head>

<p>
Mary is found with Jesus, too, in order to accept
another gift, which you must not forget and
which the Magi brought also, i.e., the bitter myrrh
of mortification. We have seen that we should offer
a pure heart to the Lord and a life full of prayer&mdash;but
we must also add to these gifts the virtues of self-denial,
self-abnegation and mortification. Mary offered
this great gift of generosity in its fulness. She
is the Queen of martyrs, the sorrowful Mother. Mourn
with her over your own ingratitude and the sins of
the world; follow her in the way of the cross of her
life; condole with her. It is a precious gift to God
to mortify one's self, and one can find daily opportunities
of doing so. As a Christian you are not to
look backward. Give the same gifts as the Magi did;
put some little privation on yourself, no matter what
it may be, or how insignificant it may appear. God
will look upon it with eyes of love, and in return
will enrich you with the spirit of mortification
and of sacrifice, which will make you apostles and
martyrs.
</p>

<pb n='027'/><anchor id='Pg027'/>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most sweet Infant Jesus! grant me, as Thou
didst to the Magi, the spirit of wisdom, of
prayer, and of sacrifice; so that following their example
of steadfast faith, I may one day receive the
reward of eternal happiness. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Seventeenth Day.</head>

<p>
We read that the Lord accompanied His parents
on a visit to the Temple in Jerusalem, and
remained there unknown to them, when they had
departed for their own home. It was His Father's
house, and He expressed a kind of wonder that He
was expected to be anywhere else at any time. We
might apply this to ourselves as well. God is Our
Father; the church is Our Father's house, and we
should be found at home. Besides, Jesus is in the
tabernacle; He, our Brother, is in His Father's
house, and the whole family should be gathered
there. You should make frequent visits to the
church, and should any one be surprised at your
conduct, and ask you the reason, you can answer
with justice: <q>Am I not to be about the things
that are my Father's?</q> Go to your work, be in
your home, but also love to pass some time in the
presence of the Lord in the church. The angels
are there, silently praying before their God in the
tabernacle; join them in their devout occupation.
You like to visit a friend; no nearer nor dearer friend
will you ever find than Jesus, your loving Saviour.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Jesus, Thou knowest my desire of serving Thee
with the purest intention of living but for
<pb n='028'/><anchor id='Pg028'/>
Thee. Thou art my hope, my strength, and my
life. I will seek not so much for consolation as for
the grace of a greater love towards Thee, my sweet
Saviour, and for strength to suffer bravely for Thy
greater glory and my own sanctification. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Eighteenth Day.</head>

<p>
From your early childhood you have been brought
to the church. Even before you knew what
church meant you trotted along with the other children,
and sat in your pew and knelt with the rest,
not knowing how to pray, not knowing what you
were about. But afterwards you began to understand
that you were going to a holy place, where sacred
things were performed: things that reminded you of
heaven, even while you were still on this earth.
When you were made a Christian by Baptism, then
you were introduced into the mystic body of the
Church, and you also received the right to stand in
the material temple of the Lord, and take your place
among the many members of the Christian people.
The Church has become your home, a place of
happiness and consolation in all your afflictions.
But do we use it as such? Do we go with all our
trials and temptations to our sweet Lord, hidden in
the tabernacle, Who is there waiting and anxious to
console us in our miseries?
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
My dearest Jesus, how much hast Thou not done
to oblige me to love Thee, and how much
hath it cost Thee to gain to Thyself my love?
Pierce my poor soul, O dearest Jesus, with the
<pb n='029'/><anchor id='Pg029'/>
sweet dart of Thy love, so that I may ever languish
with desire of Thee. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Nineteenth Day.</head>

<p>
When the shepherds were told to seek for the
Child Jesus, they were sent to look for a
child. When we set out to look for the Redeemer
we expect to see something remarkable; with fear
and trembling we approach the spot, and find only a
helpless Child lying on some straw in a manger.
Man looks for great and startling works, and God
meets him by showing things which, in his consideration,
are insignificant. We think that God should
choose great things and He chooses small ones.
This is the difference between divine and human
reasoning, between the ways of God and the ways of
man. God has become man in the form of a child,
and human wisdom thinks that now, over the whole
world, a great clamor, noise, and wonderment should
be raised; that all nations should be astounded.
Instead the Lord is a child that does not talk, does
nothing wonderful, even cries like other children,
and so He remains, or rather grows, gaining by
degrees the use of human faculties the same as other
children. These are the ways of God; we think we
should have ordered all things differently.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O sweet Babe of Bethlehem, I adore Thee in Thy
humility. Mayest Thou be ever reverenced
and adored by all creatures. May we with the angels
ever adore Thee, and may the hearts of all the
faithful ever breathe out in Thy honor a most sweet
perfume. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='030'/><anchor id='Pg030'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twentieth Day.</head>

<p>
What a difference! Adam was placed in paradise,
a most beautiful garden; the second
Adam, Jesus, is placed in the manger. The former
was but a simple human being, while this One is the
true God. And why was this difference made?
Through Adam's sin paradise, that beautiful place,
had been desecrated: God, the Author of our being,
forgotten. In punishment of this rebellion the
second Adam had to atone for this defection. We
had lowered ourselves to the level of the animals, we
had sought our joy among the natural inclinations,
and thither Our Lord had to descend in order to find
us. Paradise is again to be brought to this earth.
We, too, should show by our faith, our devotions,
and our magnificent churches, where our happiness
is. We may enjoy this paradise even on earth by
doing the will of God in all things, and receiving
frequently the body and blood of Christ, in the Holy
Sacrament of the Altar.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most sweet Infant Jesus, behold here a poor
petitioner who wants Thy aid; but such is my
unhappiness, the more I want the less able I am to
ask for relief. Have regard, therefore, to my distressed
condition, and according to the multitude of
Thy tender mercies have compassion on me. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-first Day.</head>

<p>
The angels announced the glad tidings of the
birth of Christ to the shepherds, who heard
the words and acted on them promptly and with joy,
<pb n='031'/><anchor id='Pg031'/>
ignorant though they were. The promise of the
coming of a Redeemer was clearly placed before their
minds, so that they were as prepared for this startling
announcement as if they had been waiting for it for
many years. So they went with haste and found
Mary and Joseph and the Infant. How beautiful is
Our Lord's attraction to the lowly, represented in
the call of these poor men. Such are the men that
the Babe called first. We should allow the glorious
truths of the incarnation to sink deeply into our
souls, that we may celebrate the month of the holy
childhood with profit to ourselves and to the glory of
God. We should be interested also in spreading the
Gospel among Protestants and Jews, and by our lives
lead bad Catholics back again to the Infant Babe.
Lay people can sometimes do more good than they
imagine, and in some cases even more than a priest,
because their advice and good example may have an
effect where a priest could not reach.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most sweet Babe of Bethlehem! what praise,
love, and thanks shall I return Thee for all
Thy mercies? Let my body, soul, and all that is
within me bless Thee eternally, and let heaven, earth,
and all that is within them say Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-second Day.</head>

<p>
God's glory was the object of the angels who
came to announce the birth of Our Lord.
Glory to God in the highest! Infinite glory accrues
to God the Father by sending His divine Son to this
earth to become man. We are His intelligent
creatures, to whom He was sent, and we must give
<pb n='032'/><anchor id='Pg032'/>
to God a rational worship. When we do not give
glory and thanks to God, and are ungrateful, we rob
the Creator of that recognition which He should
have from His creatures. But the same must be said
of all our works; we must have the glory of God before
our minds; we should do nothing but with the
express or implicit motive&mdash;the honor of God. Our
maxim should be, <q>All for the greater glory of
God.</q> When the angels reported the birth of the
Lord they did not refer to their own greatness but
sang out, <q>God has done this from His throne in
heaven,</q> to Him is due the glorification of His
creatures; so also we, after a good action, do not
think complacently of our own sanctity or excellence,
but say it was the inspiration of God, and God's
work, which has been done by us unworthy instruments
in His hands. Mary referred all her glory
and graces to God: <q>My soul doth magnify the
Lord.</q>
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Almighty and everlasting God! Lord of heaven
and earth, Who dost reveal Thyself to little
ones, grant us, we beseech Thee, to honor meetly the
holy mysteries in the life of Thy Son, the Child
Jesus, and to follow Him humbly in our lives, so
that we may come to the eternal kingdom promised
by Thee to little ones, through the same Christ Our
Lord. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-third Day.</head>

<p>
Again the angels said, <q>Peace on earth to men
of good-will.</q> How precious is the peace
of the soul! Peace is the fruit of a good conscience,
<pb n='033'/><anchor id='Pg033'/>
which produces peace with God and with
one's self. Seek to purify your will, make it conformable
to the will of God, for then you enjoy
peace more and more; you will taste the happiness
of that peace which surpasses all the joys of the
world, and which the world cannot give. In the
contemplation of the joyous feasts which we celebrate,
during this month of the mysteries of the
divine infancy of the Lord, we will find the happiness
of our soul. Continue in your adoration of the
Infant Jesus, bring Him the grateful thanks of a
pure heart, pray with earnestness, with perseverance,
for the mercy of God, which He can extend to you
in answer to your supplications if you are sincere.
Remember the words of the angels, <q>Glory to God
in the highest, and on earth peace to men of good-will.</q>
It is a saying which is worth repeating to
yourself.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most amiable Jesus, who for my sake and
instruction didst vouchsafe to conceal Thy
eternal wisdom under the weakness of childhood!
I most humbly thank Thee for having shown me in
Thy own sacred person how I should sanctify my
youth, and thereby draw a blessing on my future
life. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-fourth Day.</head>

<p>
<q>Mary kept all these words, pondering them in
her heart.</q>&mdash;Luke ii. 19. Twice do we
read that Mary did this. The Holy Ghost certainly
wished to attract our attention to this fact,
that we might imitate the action. All that was
<pb n='034'/><anchor id='Pg034'/>
done and all that was said made a great impression
on Mary's heart. She merited more and more the
eulogiums which God Himself bestows on those
who hear the word of God and keep it. The facts
and the words of the incarnation must be the same
to us&mdash;precious thoughts and gifts which we know
how to value and appreciate. At certain times we
should give evidence of our belief in the joy of our
heart. God's glory must be published externally,
we must not bury it in our hearts only, for Mary
preserved all these words in her heart so as to make
them public at some future time, for the welfare of
the Church. With greatest devotion and zeal she
had heard the revelations of God; with liberality
she made manifest the fulness of her heart for the
glory of God.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Wisdom, Who didst proceed out of the mouth
of the Most High, reaching from end to end,
with might and with sweetness disposing all things,
come and teach us the way of prudence. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-fifth Day.</head>

<p>
Mary not only kept all these words in her heart,
but she also meditated on them. In fact the
meaning of the words, <q>kept in her heart,</q> is that
they were ever fresh there; she kept the eyes of her
soul on them, and thought of them; she was part of
the workings of God's providence, and had no other
thought than that the will of God should be done in
all things, especially just now, in this instance of
the childhood of Christ. Men and angels had
brought her the testimony of their admiration of the
<pb n='035'/><anchor id='Pg035'/>
wonderful works of God; and Mary was consoled
and confirmed in her willingness to suffer everything
for her divine Infant Son. To us also the
meditation and the consideration of God's infinite
goodness, and the facts of revelation, are the very
centre-post around which the Christian life should
move. Be not a passive Christian that is borne
along in the crowd; go a little farther, and become
an intelligent worshipper, who has reflected well
on religious tenets, and to whom they have given
a great deal of consolation and hope of future
happiness.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Adonai and leader of the house of Israel!
Who didst appear to Moses in the fire of the
flaming bush, and didst give him the Law of Sinai:
come and save us with a stretched-forth arm.
Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-sixth Day.</head>

<p>
We are often solicitous about temporal affairs: our
eating, drinking, clothing, and that which
is dependent on us. We are right in making all
necessary efforts, but we must not forget God, or lose
confidence in Him. The Magi left their kingdoms,
palaces, families, their great comforts of home, and
went on a long journey, led by the star, without being
clearly told how far their journey was to carry
them. They had to travel through unknown lands,
under a burning sun, exposed to wild beasts, and the
enmity of wandering tribes. Still they persevered
until they were rewarded by the sight of the Messias,
the Redeemer of the world. Then <q>they rejoiced
<pb n='036'/><anchor id='Pg036'/>
with exceeding great joy.</q> This is also a lesson to
us to quiet our fears. God knows what we have
done for Him, and a thousand-fold will He reward
our generous actions, and at the same time our
families will be protected and our wants supplied.
<q>But seek ye first the kingdom of God and His
justice: and all these things shall be added unto
you.</q>&mdash;Luke xii. 31.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Root of Jesse! Who art a signal to the people,
in Whose presence kings shall be silent,
and to Whom the Gentiles shall pray: come and
deliver us now and delay not. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-seventh Day.</head>

<p>
The revelation which you have received from God
ought to enter deeply into your soul. Mary's
heart was full of grace. You should receive God's
word into your hearts, that it may be the nourishment
of your souls, that it may fill you with holy sentiments
and desires, and model you according to the life of
Christ. During these days you have given much
thought to the birth of Our Lord. Be careful in
your prayers not to keep it on your lips only, but let
it take deep root in your hearts, so that Christ may
be born again in your souls. Pray to Mary, to the
angels, and to the saints, that they may assist you;
that you may preserve the deposit of faith with
fidelity as they preserved it, for the nourishment of
the spirit and the sanctification of your soul, and of
others that may be intrusted to your care. Your
piety and love of the Lord should increase with these
<pb n='037'/><anchor id='Pg037'/>
meditations. <q>Thy word is exceedingly refined:
and Thy servant hath loved it.</q>&mdash;Ps. cxviii. 140.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Key of David and sceptre of the house of Israel!
Who openest, and no man shutteth: Who
shuttest, and no man openeth; come and take out
of prison him that is in fetters, and who sitteth in
darkness and in the shadow of death. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-eighth Day.</head>

<p>
The obedience of Our Lord to His parents is an
admirable lesson. Jesus Christ is obedient,
and submits His infinite wisdom to the commands of
human beings. Not only was He obedient to His
heavenly Father even unto the death of the cross,
but He exactly fulfilled all the requirements of the
Fourth Commandment without a murmur, without
deferring the execution of His parents' wishes to a
time more suitable to Himself. St. Bernard says
that he is obedient who fulfils a command without
delay, and with a cheerful heart. Our Lord fulfilled
this law so scrupulously because He wished to leave
us an example. Remember the fact that the Boy
Jesus was not only obedient to His heavenly Father,
but also to His superiors according to the order of
things. The Lord left, without delay, the performance
of a holy action when He was called away from
it. Our obedience to the Church and its lawful
pastors is also an obligation devolving upon us.
Children, obey your parents, servants, your masters,
citizens, the State and all constituted public authority.
Religious fulfil this law of obedience because they
make a vow of obedience.
</p>

<pb n='038'/><anchor id='Pg038'/>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Orient brightness of eternal light, and Sun of
righteousness! come and enlighten those that
sit in darkness, and in the shadow of death. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-ninth Day.</head>

<p>
<q>Jesus advanced in wisdom and age, and grace with
God and men.</q>&mdash;Luke ii. 52. From the
first instant of His sacred life on earth there were
hidden in the Lord all the treasures of wisdom and
knowledge. He constantly developed these before
the sight of men. The sun has always the same
abundance of heat and light, yet it still increases as
the day wears on until it stands in the zenith in all
its glory and power, and as the day wanes it, as it
were, draws its power to itself. The older Jesus, the
Sun of justice, grew, the brighter became the light
of His holy life, and it illumined more and more the
lives of those who observed Him. The growing
older is inevitable; as time passes we grow older,
but we do not necessarily grow in wisdom before God
and men. Our piety before God is not increased,
and we frequently give scandal to men by our impiety.
When we were young we loved God, but as we grew
older we were so implicated with the things of this
life that we lost a great deal of our simplicity. Why
should this be so?
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O King of the Gentiles, and their desired One,
the corner-stone that joins the two walls! come
and save man, whom Thou didst form out of dust.
Amen.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='039'/><anchor id='Pg039'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirtieth Day.</head>

<p>
Jesus was filled with grace and truth from the very
beginning of His life. We have seen His glory,
the glory of the only Son of the Father, full of grace
and truth. More and more did His virtues, however,
shine forth with ever increasing splendor; men
wondered at this glorious Being, loved Him, and
afterwards followed Him when He began His mission.
We, too, were full of grace at our Baptism, and long
afterwards, in our childhood, we were pleasing in the
sight of God, because we were innocent children
whom God loved. We were then modest, pious,
obedient, but in course of time we sought to please
men more than God. To please men is often to
displease God. We should have hungered and
thirsted after justice, and this would have kept alive
in us the desire to grow in grace, wisdom and truth.
But now let us arouse ourselves, and even though we
are old, let us strive to become like the divine
Infant. Let us, with the grace of God, renew in
ourselves the graces that were in us. Let us examine
our conscience, and see whether we have remained
faithful to our good resolutions, if we have ever made
them before. It is not too late yet to resolve to do
better in the future.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Emmanuel, King and Lawgiver! the expectation
of the Gentiles and their Saviour; come
and save us, O Lord, Our God. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirty-first Day.</head>

<p>
On this last day of the devotion of the holy
infancy, let us endeavor to make permanent
<pb n='040'/><anchor id='Pg040'/>
the pious sentiments that have passed through our
souls. We wish to have Jesus in our hearts, not only
for the present but also for the future. It is not
enough to find Jesus as the shepherds and the Magi
did, but we should try to keep ourselves always in
His sacred presence. The means to retain Jesus are
no other than to keep ourselves in grace, to avoid
sin, to preserve His love in our hearts, and lastly to
be watchful, when temptation assails us, against
sensuality, pride, avarice, and want of charity, and
any other vice. Let us remain close to Our Lord,
remembering our promises of fidelity, in a humble
confidence that He will assist us with His grace. Let
us remember the words of the Royal Prophet David:
That a soul that fears God will not be affected by
infidelity. Let us repeat with the spouse in the
Canticles: <q>I found Him Whom my soul loveth:
I held Him: and I will not let Him go.</q> Who will
separate me from the love of Christ?
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Infant Jesus! grant that each moment of our
lives, we may pay homage to that moment in
which Thou didst begin the work of our salvation.
Amen.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Mass in Commemoration of the Holy Infancy of
Jesus Christ.</head>

<p>Preparatory Prayer.</p>

<p>
Deign, O almighty God, to give me the grace
to remember, with devotion and love during
the holy sacrifice, the sacred birth, the Passion and
death of Thy Son, Jesus Christ. I offer to Thee,
<pb n='041'/><anchor id='Pg041'/>
Thy divine Son by the hands of Mary, His Virgin
Mother, to the honor of Thy holy name, and in
grateful thanksgiving for the numberless graces and
blessings which Thou hast bestowed upon Thy poor
creature. I offer Him also for the joy of the heavenly
court, as a victim of propitiation for my sins,
for the living and the dead, and for my special intention,
which, with all confidence, I recommend to
Thee. Permit me to feel Thy sacred presence, to
be immersed in Thy pure light, and to be comforted
by it, so that I may always, but especially on
this day, serve Thee faithfully, and bear the trials
which Thou sendest me with love and courage. In
consideration of the tears and the precious blood of
Thy divine Son, by Whom I knock at the gates of
Thy mercy and kindness, grant that all misfortunes
of body and soul may be averted from me, through
Christ Our Lord, Who is ever praised with Thee
and the Holy Ghost, for all eternity. Amen.
</p>

<p>Introit.</p>

<p>
O my God, I should be holy as Thou art holy,
fountain of all sanctity; and still Thou seest
in me nothing pure. I am full of iniquity. Have
mercy on me, make manifest in me Thy mercy. I
present to Thee, in sorrow and humility, the Infant
Jesus as my intercessor. Look upon Him, O heavenly
Father, the brightness of Thy own glory, now
lying in a crib in a wretched stable. And from
that lowly bed He raises up His little hands,
begging for pardon, in order that we, His erring
brothers and sisters, may be brought back to Thy
paternal Heart, and to ward off the punishment
which we so richly deserve. O divine Redeemer,
<pb n='042'/><anchor id='Pg042'/>
despise not our confidence! Stretch out Thy almighty
right hand and draw us forth from the floods
of our sins, miseries, and iniquities, so that we may
gratefully thank Thee and the Father for all eternity.
Amen.
</p>

<p>Gospel.</p>

<p>
We render Thee, O loving Jesus, our everlasting
thanksgiving for having descended from
Thy unspeakable happiness in heaven to this miserable
earth, where Thou dost wish to console Thy
needy creatures and to teach us by Thy holy Gospel
the way to heaven. Who would not approach Thee
with confidence, when he sees Thee, the infinite
God, wrapped in swaddling-clothes, resting on the
bosom of the purest and tenderest of Mothers, with
hands full of graces and a Heart full of love! Even
though untold misery should overwhelm our hearts,
and innumerable desires consume our souls, still we
would take confidence from this kindness and love,
and our souls would be filled with happiness and
peace. Look upon me, then, O gracious Infant!
and by that look of kindness may my intellect be
enlightened to understand the divine truths; may
my will be inflamed to fulfil Thy commands and
inspirations, and my memory continually suggest
Thy promises and Thy goodness. So that on the
altar of my heart may be placed a triple sacrifice of
faith, hope, and charity, and then I can claim from
Thy majesty new graces and benedictions upon myself,
upon those in whom I am interested, and upon
all those on whom the light of the Gospel has not
shone, that we may become vessels to Thy honor
and love, and may praise Thy mercies for all eternity.
Amen.
</p>

<pb n='043'/><anchor id='Pg043'/>

<p>Offertory.</p>

<p>
As I kneel in spirit at the crib of Bethlehem,
and see the divine Infant offering Himself
to the heavenly Father for my sins, so I bring, as an
offering with the priest, my poor heart which thirsts
for Thee. Oh, that I could offer Thee as gifts many
virtuous acts! but bowed down in the dust of my
own nothingness, I cannot offer anything more than
an empty, sorrowful heart. Look upon it with
mercy, and send upon it the dew of Thy grace and
love, which will quickly bear fruit of humility and
meekness. Adorn my soul with the flowers of devotion,
that my whole life may become a song of
praise and petition for mercy. Amen.
</p>

<p>Sanctus.</p>

<p>
Unfathomable, O Lord God, are the depths of
Thy mysteries, and wonderful the inventions
of Thy mercy. Faith teaches me that He Who is
in the crib, and weeps and trembles, is the One
Whose thunder rolls in the clouds, at the sound of
Whose voice cherubim and seraphim veil their faces
with their wings. What a manifestation of humility
and love do I contemplate in this! Come, O Lord,
with Thy all-conquering love, and enkindle my cold
heart and the hearts of all careless Christians with
the flames of love! Come to me in the fulness of
Thy graces and blessings, and stir up my sluggish
humor; enlighten all needy souls with the abundance
of Thy eternal brightness, that we may now,
and for all eternity, sing the angelic anthem: Holy,
holy, holy, is Our God! Amen.
</p>

<pb n='044'/><anchor id='Pg044'/>

<p>The Secret.</p>

<p>
O kind Father! in humility I beg of Thee,
through Our Lord Jesus Christ, Thy Son,
may our sacrifice and prayers please Thee. Bless
me, bless those who are here present at this sacrifice,
and bless also all who are needy and suffering.
I pray Thee especially for the holy Catholic Church
and her ministers, that Thou mayest keep them in
peace and harmony; that Thou mayest protect and
govern them, and mayest pour into their souls that
peace which the divine Infant brought to this earth&mdash;Who
alone is the cause of the happiness which we
enjoy here below. I wish to join the angels in exclaiming,
<q>Peace to my soul, peace to all men of
good-will.</q>
</p>

<p>Consecration.</p>

<p>
Look down, O Lord God the Father! on this
altar where Thy divine Son adores Thee as He
did from the stable of Bethlehem, and offers Himself
as a spotless lamb as He did on Calvary. We unite
our prayers with His, and we beg of Thy unlimited
mercy that Thou wouldst listen to the pleading of this
divine Heart and of this precious blood, and grant
us what is pleasing to Thee. Grant that we may
grow in the odor of sanctity of Our Lord Jesus Christ,
and share with Him eternal happiness in heaven.
Amen.
</p>

<p>After The Consecration.</p>

<p>
O divine Infant Jesus, give me the grace to
realize the wonders of Thy holy love! In all
humility I consecrate myself to Thee as a holocaust
to Thy holy condescension. Oh, that I were able to
<pb n='045'/><anchor id='Pg045'/>
adore Thee with that sincere and heartfelt devotion
with which the holy Virgin, St. Joseph, the pious
shepherds, the Magi, and all the fervent adorers of
Thy divine infancy adored Thee. With all my
soul I will love Thee. All the movements of my
heart shall be directed towards Thee; my soul
shall be Thy dwelling. With Thy grace I will
fulfil all the duties of my state in life. Change
this sinful man into a new being by Thy almighty
love, by the same love with which Thou hast changed
the bread and wine into Thy adorable body and blood.
May Thy profound humility restrain the pride of my
heart; may Thy wonderful purity transform me into
a lily of purity for the heavenly garden, and Thy love
guide me through the storms of this wretched life to
the habitation of bliss: to Thy throne, where ever
and ever springs forth life without end. Amen.
</p>

<p>Commemoration Of The Dead.</p>

<p>
Remember, also, O most merciful Jesus! all Thy
servants who have departed this life, marked
with the seal of faith and charity, and who sleep the
sleep of peace. Let them all feel, according to their
burning desire, the power of the holy sacrifice of the
Mass. Open to them the gates of heaven, the abode
of light and peace, that they may join the innumerable
chorus of angels and saints, who praise and love
Thee for all eternity. Amen.
</p>

<p>Agnus Dei.</p>

<p>
O immaculate Lamb of God, suffering all human
tribulations! teach me to tear myself away
from the affections of earthly things, which still keep
<pb n='046'/><anchor id='Pg046'/>
me from adhering solely to Thee. O gracious Lamb
of God, Who didst descend from heaven to bring
grace and light into my needy soul! let the dew of
Thy kindness descend upon this barren land of my
heart, to enrich it with many virtues. O pure Lamb
of God, Prince of peace and love! calm in my soul
all disquiet, and let it be inflamed with the flames of
Thy holy love, whence all my words and actions
derive their merit. Amen.
</p>

<p>Communion.</p>

<p>
O dearest Jesus, my Redeemer! from the stable
of Bethlehem Thou callest to me, <q>Come to
Me, all you that labor and are burdened, and I will
refresh you.</q>&mdash;Matt. xi. 28. Pressed and overwhelmed
with many trials, my soul longs for Thee,
and desires to partake of the heavenly banquet of
Thy flesh and blood, and to be united to Thee most
intimately. Come, O Lord, to comfort my languishing
spirit! strengthen my weak resolutions; change
my whole being into something more pleasing to
Thee. What heart is not softened by Thy loving
glance, and desires not to be one with Thee? Admit
my heart to a union with Thine, that both may be
consumed together. As dry wood easily takes fire
from flames, so may my heart begin to burn brightly,
and whatever is displeasing to Thee be consumed by
Thy holy love. Let me find rest in the enjoyment
of Thy divinity; and let me have no earthly attachments,
so that when I shall be loosed from the ties of
this world, I may fly to Thee, and rest in Thy bosom.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<lg>
<l>Soul of Christ, sanctify me:</l>
<l>Body of Christ, save me:</l>
<pb n='047'/><anchor id='Pg047'/>
<l>Blood of Christ, inebriate me:</l>
<l>Water from the side of Christ, wash me.</l>
<l>Passion of Christ, strengthen me:</l>
<l>O good Jesus, hear me:</l>
<l>Within Thy wounds hide me:</l>
<l>Permit me not to be separated from Thee.</l>
<l>From the malignant enemy defend me:</l>
<l>In the hour of my death call me,</l>
<l>And bid me come to Thee,</l>
<l>That, with Thy saints, I may praise Thee</l>
<l>Forever and ever. Amen.</l>
</lg>

</quote>

<p>Conclusion.</p>

<p>
Accept, O Blessed Trinity! my grateful thanks
for the graces which Thou hast poured upon
my soul during this holy sacrifice, which I have
attended in honor of the holy infancy. And then,
O divine Infant! permit me to remain with Thee
whilst I am engaged in the duties of my state in life.
Make me ever mindful of that gratitude which I ought
to have for Thy holy love; let me feel the truth of
the words, <q>I have found Him Whom my soul
loveth</q>; I will never be separated from Him.
Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Litany of the Holy Name of Jesus.</head>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
(Form to which an indulgence of three hundred days was
granted by Pope Pius IX., who suppressed all other forms.)
</p>

<lg>
<l>Lord, have mercy on us.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Christ, have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Lord, have mercy on us.</l>
<l>Jesus, hear us.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Jesus, graciously hear us.</hi></l>
<pb n='048'/><anchor id='Pg048'/>
<l>God the Father of heaven, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>God the Son, Redeemer of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>God the Holy Ghost, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Trinity, one God, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, Son of the living God, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, splendor of the Father, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, brightness of eternal light, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, king of glory, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, sun of justice, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, Son of the Virgin Mary, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus amiable, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus admirable, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, the powerful God, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, father of the world to come, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, angel of the great council, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, most powerful, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, most patient, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, most obedient, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, meek and humble of heart, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, lover of chastity, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, lover of us, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, God of peace, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, author of life, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, model of all virtues, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, zealous for souls, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, our God, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, our refuge, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, father of the poor, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, treasure of the faithful, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, good shepherd, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, true light, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, eternal wisdom, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, infinite goodness, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, our way and our life, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, joy of the angels, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, king of the patriarchs, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, master of the apostles, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, teacher of the Evangelists, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, strength of martyrs, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, light of confessors, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, purity of virgins, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, crown of all saints, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Be merciful. <hi rend='italic'>Spare us, O Jesus!</hi></l>
<pb n='049'/><anchor id='Pg049'/>
<l>Be merciful, <hi rend='italic'>Deliver us, O Jesus.</hi></l>
<l>From all evil, <hi rend='italic'>Deliver us, O Jesus.</hi></l>
<l>From all sin, <hi rend='italic'>Deliver us, O Jesus.</hi></l>
<l>From Thy wrath, <hi rend='italic'>Deliver us, O Jesus.</hi></l>
<l>From the snares of the devil, <hi rend='italic'>Deliver us, O Jesus.</hi></l>
<l>From the spirit of fornication, <hi rend='italic'>Deliver us, O Jesus.</hi></l>
<l>From eternal death, <hi rend='italic'>Deliver us, O Jesus.</hi></l>
<l>From the neglect of Thy inspirations, <hi rend='italic'>Deliver us, O Jesus.</hi></l>
<l>Through the mystery of Thy holy incarnation, <hi rend='italic'>Graciously hear us, O Jesus</hi>!</l>
<l>Through Thy nativity, <hi rend='italic'>Deliver us, O Jesus.</hi></l>
<l>Through Thy infancy, <hi rend='italic'>Deliver us, O Jesus.</hi></l>
<l>Through Thy most divine life, <hi rend='italic'>Deliver us, O Jesus.</hi></l>
<l>Through Thy labors, <hi rend='italic'>Deliver us, O Jesus.</hi></l>
<l>Through Thy agony and Passion, <hi rend='italic'>Deliver us, O Jesus.</hi></l>
<l>Through Thy cross and dereliction, <hi rend='italic'>Deliver us, O Jesus.</hi></l>
<l>Through Thy languors, <hi rend='italic'>Deliver us, O Jesus.</hi></l>
<l>Through Thy death and burial, <hi rend='italic'>Deliver us, O Jesus.</hi></l>
<l>Through Thy resurrection, <hi rend='italic'>Deliver us, O Jesus.</hi></l>
<l>Through Thy ascension, <hi rend='italic'>Deliver us, O Jesus.</hi></l>
<l>Through Thy joys, <hi rend='italic'>Deliver us, O Jesus.</hi></l>
<l>Through Thy glory, <hi rend='italic'>Deliver us, O Jesus.</hi></l>
<l>Lamb of God, Who takest away the sins of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Spare us, O Jesus!</hi></l>
<l>Lamb of God, Who takest away the sins of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Graciously hear us, O Jesus!</hi></l>
<l>Lamb of God, Who takest away the sins of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us, O Jesus!</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, hear us.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Jesus, graciously hear us!</hi></l>
</lg>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Let Us Pray.</hi>
</p>

<p>
O Lord Jesus Christ, Who hast said, <q>Ask, and it shall
be given you: seek, and you shall find: knock, and it
shall be opened to you,</q> grant, we beseech Thee, to us who
ask the gift of Thy divine love, that we may love Thee with
our whole heart, in word and work, and never cease from
showing forth Thy praise.
</p>

<p>
Grant, O Lord, that we may have a perpetual fear and love
of Thy holy name, for Thou never failest to direct and govern
those whom Thou hast instructed in Thy true and solid love,
through the same Christ, Our Lord. Amen.
</p>

</quote>

</div>

<pb n='050'/><anchor id='Pg050'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Litany of the Infant Jesus.</head>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>For Private Devotion Only.</hi>)
</p>

<lg>
<l>Lord, have mercy.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Lord, have mercy.</hi></l>
<l>Christ, have mercy.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Christ, have mercy.</hi></l>
<l>Lord, have mercy.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Lord, have mercy.</hi></l>
<l>Infant Jesus, hear us.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Infant Jesus, graciously hear us.</hi></l>
<l>God, the Father of heaven, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>God the Son, Redeemer of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>God the Holy Ghost, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Trinity, one God, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant Jesus, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, very God, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, Son of the living God, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, Son of the Virgin Mary, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, begotten before the morning star, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, Word made flesh, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, wisdom of Thy Father, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, purity of Thy Mother, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, only Son of Thy Father, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, only-born of Thy Mother, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, image of Thy Father, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, Creator of Thy Mother, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, splendor of Thy Father, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, honor of Thy Mother, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, equal to Thy Father, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, subject to Thy Mother, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, joy of Thy Father, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, riches of Thy Mother, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, gift of Thy Father, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, offering of Thy Mother, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, precious fruit of a Virgin, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, Creator of man, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, power of God, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, our God, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, our Brother, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, perfect man from Thy conception, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<pb n='051'/><anchor id='Pg051'/>
<l>Infant, ancient in wisdom from Thy childhood, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, father of ages, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant of days, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, giving life and nourished at the breast, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, Eternal Word, and making Thyself dumb, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, weeping in Thy crib, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, thundering in the heavens, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, terror of hell, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, joy of paradise, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, dreaded by tyrants, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, desired by the Magi, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, exiled from Thy people, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, king in exile, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, destroyer of idols, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, vindicator of the glory of God, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, strong in weakness, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, powerful in abasement, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, treasure of grace, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, fountain of love, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, author of the blessings of heaven, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, repairer of the evils of earth, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, head of the angels, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, stem of the patriarchs, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, word of the prophets, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, expectation of nations, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, joy of the shepherds, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, light of the Magi, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, salvation of children, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, hope of the just, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, teacher of doctors, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Infant, first-fruits of the saints, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Be merciful, <hi rend='italic'>Spare us, O Infant Jesus</hi>!</l>
<l>Be merciful, <hi rend='italic'>Graciously hear us, O Infant Jesus</hi>!</l>
<l>From the bondage of the children of Adam, <hi rend='italic'>Infant Jesus, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>From the slavery of the devil, <hi rend='italic'>Infant Jesus, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>From the corruption of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Infant Jesus, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>From the lust of the flesh, <hi rend='italic'>Infant Jesus, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>From the pride of life, <hi rend='italic'>Infant Jesus, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>From an immoderate desire of knowledge, <hi rend='italic'>Infant Jesus, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>From blindness of mind, <hi rend='italic'>Infant Jesus, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>From perversity of will, <hi rend='italic'>Infant Jesus, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>From our sins, <hi rend='italic'>Infant Jesus, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>Through Thy most pure conception, <hi rend='italic'>Infant Jesus, deliver us.</hi></l>
<pb n='052'/><anchor id='Pg052'/>
<l>Through Thy most humble birth, <hi rend='italic'>Infant Jesus, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>Through Thy tears, <hi rend='italic'>Infant Jesus, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>Through Thy most painful circumcision, <hi rend='italic'>Infant Jesus, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>Through Thy most glorious epiphany, <hi rend='italic'>Infant Jesus, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>Through Thy most devout presentation, <hi rend='italic'>Infant Jesus, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>Through Thy most innocent conversation in the world, <hi rend='italic'>Infant Jesus, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>Through Thy most holy life, <hi rend='italic'>Infant Jesus, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>Through Thy poverty, <hi rend='italic'>Infant Jesus, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>Through Thy sorrows, <hi rend='italic'>Infant Jesus, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>Through Thy labors and trials. <hi rend='italic'>Infant Jesus, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>Lamb of God. Who takest away the sins of the world. <hi rend='italic'>Spare us. O Infant Jesus!</hi></l>
<l>Lamb of God. Who takest away the sins of the world. <hi rend='italic'>Graciously hear us. O Infant Jesus!</hi></l>
<l>Lamb of God. Who takest away the sins of the world. <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us. O Infant Jesus!</hi></l>
<l>Infant Jesus, hear us,</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Infant Jesus, graciously hear us</hi>!</l>
</lg>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Let Us Pray.</hi>
</p>

<p>
O Lord Jesus Christ, Who didst vouchsafe so to annihilate
the greatness of Thy incarnate divinity and most
sacred humanity, as to be born in time, and become a little child;
grant that we may acknowledge infinite wisdom in the silence
of a child, power in weakness, majesty in abasement: so that
adoring Thy humiliations on earth, we may contemplate Thy
glories in heaven. Who with the Father and the Holy Ghost,
livest and reignest, God, forever and ever. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Mysteries of the Sacred Infancy.</head>

<p>
(For every day of this month and each 25th day of every
month during the year.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Incline unto my aid, O God.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> O Lord, make haste to help me.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Glory be to the Father, etc.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> As it was in, etc. Our Father, etc.
</p>

<pb n='053'/><anchor id='Pg053'/>

<p>
1. The Incarnation.
</p>

<p>
O most sweet Infant Jesus! Who for our salvation
didst descend from the bosom of the eternal
Father, into the womb of the Virgin Mary, where,
conceived by the Holy Ghost, Thou didst take upon
Thee, O Incarnate Word, the form of a servant, have
mercy upon us.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Have mercy upon us, O Lord.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Have mercy upon us. Hail Mary, etc.
</p>

<p>
2. The Visitation.
</p>

<p>
O most sweet Infant Jesus! Who by means of
Thy Virgin Mother didst visit St. Elizabeth,
and filling Thy forerunner, St. John the Baptist, with
the Holy Spirit, didst sanctify him from his mother's
womb, have mercy upon us.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Have mercy, etc.
</p>

<p>
3. The Expectation of the Birth.
</p>

<p>
O most sweet Infant Jesus! Who for nine months
enclosed in the womb, didst wait for the time
of Thy birth, and didst meantime inflame the hearts
of the Virgin Mary and St. Joseph with most ardent
longings, and didst offer Thyself to God the Father
for the salvation of the world, have mercy upon us.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Have mercy, etc.
</p>

<p>
4. The Holy Nativity.
</p>

<p>
O most sweet Infant Jesus! born of the Virgin
Mary in Bethlehem, wrapped in poor swaddling-*clothes,
and laid in the manger, glorified by angels,
and visited by shepherds, have mercy upon us.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Have mercy, etc.
</p>

<pb n='054'/><anchor id='Pg054'/>

<quote rend='display'>

<lg>
<l>O Jesu! born of Virgin bright,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Immortal glory be to Thee;</l>
<l>Praise to the Father infinite,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And Holy Ghost, eternally.</l>
</lg>

</quote>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Christ is at hand.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> O come, let us worship Him. Our Father,
etc.
</p>

<p>
5. The Circumcision.
</p>

<p>
O most sweet Infant Jesus! circumcised when
eight days old, called by the glorious name of
Jesus, and proclaimed both by Thy name and by Thy
blood to be the Saviour of the world, have mercy
upon us.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Have mercy, etc.
</p>

<p>
6. The Adoration of the Kings.
</p>

<p>
O most sweet Infant Jesus! Who wast manifest
to the three kings, who worshipped Thee as
Thou didst lie on Mary's breast, and offered to Thee
the mysterious presents of gold, frankincense, and
myrrh, have mercy upon us.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Have mercy, etc.
</p>

<p>
7. The Presentation.
</p>

<p>
O most sweet Infant Jesus! presented in the
Temple by the Virgin Mary, embraced by the
holy old man Simeon, and revealed to the Jews by
Anna the prophetess, have mercy upon us.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Have mercy, etc.
</p>

<p>
8. The Flight Into Egypt.
</p>

<p>
O most sweet Infant Jesus! Whom Herod sought
to slay, carried by St. Joseph with Thy Mother
into Egypt, saved from death by flight, and glorified
<pb n='055'/><anchor id='Pg055'/>
by the blood of the holy innocents, have mercy
upon us.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Have mercy, etc.
</p>

<lg>
<l>O Jesu! born of Virgin bright, etc.</l>
</lg>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Christ is at hand.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> O come, let us worship Him. Our Father,
etc.
</p>

<p>
9. The Sojourn In Egypt.
</p>

<p>
O most sweet Infant Jesus! Who didst dwell as
an exile in Egypt for seven years, where Thou
didst utter Thy first words, and, loosed from Thy
swathing-bands, didst first begin to walk upon this
earth, and, in the destruction of the idols, didst
work, in a hidden manner, Thy first miracles, have
mercy upon us.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Have mercy, etc.
</p>

<p>
10. The Return From Egypt.
</p>

<p>
O most sweet Infant Jesus! Who when Herod was
dead, wast recalled out of Egypt into the land
of Israel, and didst in the journey suffer many fatigues
and hardships, and wast carried back by Mary and
Joseph to the city of Nazareth, have mercy upon us.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Have mercy, etc.
</p>

<p>
11. The Life in the Holy House.
</p>

<p>
O most sweet Infant Jesus! Who in the holy
house of Nazareth didst dwell most holily,
and didst pass Thy life in obedience, poverty, and
toil, and as Thou didst increase in years didst manifest
to God and men signs of wisdom and grace,
have mercy upon us.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Have mercy, etc.
</p>

<pb n='056'/><anchor id='Pg056'/>

<p>
12. The Disputing With The Doctors.
</p>

<p>
O most sweet Infant Jesus! Who wast taken to
Jerusalem when twelve years old, wast lost by
Thy parents, and sought for by them with sorrow,
and after three days wast found, to their exceeding
joy, with the doctors in the Temple, have mercy
upon us.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Have mercy, etc.
</p>

<lg>
<l>O Jesu! born of Virgin bright, etc.</l>
</lg>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Christ is at hand.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> O come, let us worship Him. Our Father,
etc.
</p>

<p>
During the year:
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> The Word was made flesh.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And dwelt amongst us.
</p>

<p>
At Christmas and during the octave add Alleluia.
</p>

<p>
At the Epiphany and during the octave:
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Christ hath manifested Himself unto us.
Alleluia.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> O come, let us worship Him. Alleluia.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Let Us Pray.</hi>
</p>

<p>
O almighty and everlasting God, Lord of heaven
and earth! Who didst reveal Thyself to little
ones, grant, we beseech Thee, that whilst we duly
celebrate and honor the most holy mysteries of Thy
Son, the Infant Jesus, and worthily strive to imitate
them, we may arrive at that heavenly kingdom which
Thou hast promised to little children, through the
same Jesus Christ, Our Lord, Who liveth and reigneth
with Thee in the unity of the Holy Ghost, world
without end. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='057'/><anchor id='Pg057'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Communion Prayers in Honor of the Infant Jesus.</head>

<p>
Preparation for Holy Communion.
</p>

<p>
1. I believe most firmly, my dear Jesus, that in
the consecrated Host is contained Thy humanity
and Thy divinity, together with Thy sacred
flesh and blood. I believe in this mystery of our
faith, because Thou, Who art infinite wisdom, hast
announced, <q>My flesh is meat indeed, and My blood
is drink indeed.</q> I believe as firmly as Thy holy
Mother Mary believed in all the sacred truths which
Thou camest to preach. With the heart of Mary, O
divine Infant Jesus, I would love Thee! I would
wish to receive Thee into the shelter of my heart,
as Mary didst receive Thee into her arms with devotion
and tenderness, and Thou didst find a resting-place.
Cold and dreary was everything about Thee,
that night of Thy birth, but Thou didst find a warm
heart in Thy holy Mother. Let me embrace Thee
with the same fervor with which Joseph and Simeon
welcomed Thee into their arms. Give me now, O
divine Infant Jesus, through the participation in Thy
body and blood, the burning love of Thy holy
spirit, which induced Thee to become my Brother.
Thou didst institute this Holy Sacrament that I might
be united to Thee and Thou to me. I am heartily
sorry that I have, hitherto, preferred creatures to
Thee, and so far have done nothing to deserve Thy
mercy. Forgive the sins for which I have had only
a superficial sorrow, and which I, perhaps, have confessed
in the same spirit. Clothe me with the garb
of innocence of Thy holy childhood; by Thy adorable
blood purify me, by Thy holy spirit enliven me,
<pb n='058'/><anchor id='Pg058'/>
that from the present I may no longer live, but
Thou, my Jesus, live in me forever.
</p>

<p>
O Holy Ghost, Who didst prepare the body of
the Blessed Virgin Mary, by the infusion of sanctity,
to be a worthy habitation of the body of the divine
Infant Jesus, prostrate before Thee I beg that Thy
grace may also render my soul and body worthy to
receive the body of Christ, that I may receive Him
with purity and faith, and may through the reception
lay a foundation of sanctity, which will entitle
me to enter the glorious kingdom of heaven.
</p>

<p>
O my good Jesus, my whole confidence is in
Thee; Thy wounds and Thy sacred blood encourage
me to hope in the Lord.
</p>

<p>
O Son of the almighty God, Son of the Virgin
Mary, hear me, and be merciful unto me. My heart
desires to receive Thee with the same joy and desire
with which Mary conceived Thee and gave Thee
birth.
</p>

<p>
Come, then, dear Lord, and fashion my heart according
to Thy will; and, oh, holy saints, devout
adorers of the Infant Jesus, St. Francis, St. Anthony,
St. Stanislaus, pray that my faith may be strong,
that my hope and confidence in the Infant Jesus may
increase, that my love for Him and His good
Mother may burn with an inextinguishable flame.
</p>

<p>
And thou, my guardian angel, as well as arch-*angels
and angels, cherubim and seraphim, accompany
me to the holy table of the Lord; cover me
with thy wings, for I am not worthy to receive this
heavenly food.
</p>

<p>
2. O my God, my Lord, is it possible that Thou
lovest me, a miserable human being, so tenderly,
that now Thou dost feed my soul with Thy precious
<pb n='059'/><anchor id='Pg059'/>
blood, with the bread of angels? By this sacred
food Thou dost so firmly unite me to Thee as to
make us one; Thy soul unites itself with my soul, and
Thy body with my poor human nature. Rejoice,
then, O my soul, for no longer can it be said, <q>My
tears have been my bread day and night: whilst it is
said to me daily: Where is thy God?</q>&mdash;Ps. xli. 4.
For my food is the bread of angels and my God
is not far from me and my God is in my soul! O
dear Jesus, how liberal art Thou towards him that
seeks Thee! How can I make return for this great
kindness?
</p>

<p>
3. Consider, O my soul, that as often as you receive
communion, you become, as it were, like Mary,
the Mother of God, and a spouse of Jesus Christ:
for in holy communion you may consider that the
Lord comes to you as the little Child of Bethlehem.
He becomes your Spouse because He loves you, takes
care of you, and caresses you. O my soul, with
what energy you ought to seek to acquire the virtues
of our dear Mother Mary. She was adorned with
every virtue when the incarnation took place in her,
and she enjoyed the presence of her God.
</p>

<p>
Put yourself exclusively into the hands of God,
and have the same sentiments that Mary had when
she said, <q>Behold the handmaid of the Lord,</q> or
with the spouse in the Canticles: <q>My Beloved is a
bunch of myrrh which rests in my bosom.</q> And
with Simeon, the prophet, exclaim, <q>Now Thou
dost dismiss Thy servant, O Lord, according to Thy
word in peace: Because my eyes have seen Thy
salvation.</q>
</p>

<p>
4. Permit me, my dear Jesus, to use Thy words in
the Gospel: <q>I am come to cast fire on the earth,
<pb n='060'/><anchor id='Pg060'/>
and what will I but that it be kindled?</q>&mdash;Luke xii.
49. Why is it that I receive so often, and approach
this fire of divine love, and am not ignited? Let,
then, this fire of love, which burns in this Sacrament,
communicate its flames to me, that I may rise from
the things of this world. I will now endeavor to
love Thee above all things and no creature shall
hinder me from Thy love. I will love Thee with
my whole strength.
</p>

<p>
5. Dear Infant Jesus, Thy love has conquered my
heart! I know now that Thou givest Thyself to me
as my food, and as a ransom to free me from the
slavery of Satan. My servitude to the devil, the
flesh, and the world has been hard, but being once
liberated from these chains, I hate my former cruel
masters, and wish to belong entirely to Thee.
There is no joy or happiness in anything in this
world, but in Thee, my God, Who callest to me:
<q>Come to Me all you that labor, and are burdened,
and I will refresh you. Take up My yoke upon you ...
and you shall find rest to your souls.</q>&mdash;Matt. xi. 28,
29. Yes, I will willingly subject myself to Thy yoke,
by obedience to Thy holy commandments, which I
will keep with the greatest exactitude. Permit me
to approach Thy sacred banquet, for which I am now
preparing.
</p>

<p>
6. In Jesus you may find all that you seek, and all
that you need. Why, then, do you turn to other
consolations? Seek that only Good which contains
all good. Consider Jesus in the Blessed Sacrament,
the greatest Good, and stir up in yourself a desire for
Him. He will not despise you, though you are unworthy
of the favor. When Jesus dwelt on earth,
and travelled through cities, towns, and country, He
<pb n='061'/><anchor id='Pg061'/>
always had compassion on misery, and rejected none
that came seeking relief from the ills of body and
soul. And now that same Jesus is in heaven, and
He can refuse no one. The woman who touched
the hem of His garment was healed of a long standing
infirmity. Magdalen, the sinner, kisses His feet,
and her sins are forgiven. The pagan woman of
Chanaan obtains the cure of her daughter. The
sisters Mary and Martha obtain the resurrection of
their brother Lazarus. Those possessed by the
devil are freed.
</p>

<p>
My heart will not hesitate, but will boldly and
humbly approach the Lord and ask the cure of my
soul. He gives me His sacred body and blood,
and all other needful things will be added unto
me.
</p>

<p>
7. Yes, my God, my Lord, will come to me! I
will not fear; I will approach with a joyful heart;
I will not lose courage because I am sinful, as I know
the Lord invites the sinner. He has eaten and drank
with them, and treated them as His friends. He will
also eat with me, and entertain me at His own table
if I am only sorry for my sins. He will give me the
kiss of peace and welcome me to His house. With
His own flesh and blood He will feed me.
</p>

<p>
8. Come, O dear Jesus, wash my feet as Thou didst
the apostles'. St. Peter refused, but when he was
told that unless he complied he would have no part
with Jesus, he gladly consented. Purify me also
that I may have share with Thee in Thy glory. I
am full of impurities in body and soul, my lips are
unclean, because they utter many reprehensible
words, my eyes and ears are impure, because they
see and hear impurities. Who can purify me but
<pb n='062'/><anchor id='Pg062'/>
Thou, O Lord, O crucified Redeemer, by Thy sacred
blood which flows from the cross?
</p>

<p>
9. Who shall give me the wings of a dove, that I
may fly to Thee, my rest, my peace? Give me two
wings: one the firm confidence in Thy goodness,
that Thou wilt allow me to claim some of Thy
merits for my salvation; the other the wing of love,
that I may soar beyond this world, and remain with
Thee. Prepare me for Thy sacred banquet with
the virtues which Thou Thyself would have in me.
Teach me how I am to serve Thee. Give me a real
thirst after Thy sacred blood, and a real hunger after
Thy sacred flesh, that I may really desire it.
</p>

<p>
10. O consolation of my soul, dear Infant Jesus,
I beg of Thee to root out of my heart all the sins and
vices to which I am so much inclined; spare me not
in removing them, even though it may hurt, even
though I may be unwilling. Piety, humility, sincerity,
modesty, and love are necessary. Then plant
these virtues in my soul, and give me grace to practise
them.
</p>

<p>
11. The Bridegroom is coming! I hear this cry,
and I am to go forth to meet Him. Am I prepared?
Have I oil in my lamp? Bestir yourself then, O
my soul: it is not an angel that is coming, or a great
prophet. No, it is God Himself Who is approaching:
the Son of God, the King of glory. Rise,
my soul, and prepare a resting-place in your heart,
where the Lord may remain.
</p>

<p>
After Communion.
</p>

<p>
Ejaculations To The Dear Infant Jesus.
</p>

<p>
How great is Thy love, sweet Heart of Jesus, Who
hast given Thyself to me as a celestial food!
<pb n='063'/><anchor id='Pg063'/>
Thou deservest to be loved with an infinite love,
and not with the love of ordinary creatures.
</p>

<p>
O Jesus, I am heartily sorry for having hitherto
loved Thee so little! Why did I not love Thee
sooner?
</p>

<p>
Would that I could redeem that time in which I
did not love Thee! Where will I find hearts that
are going to help me to make up for the glory that
I should have given Thee up to this time?
</p>

<p>
Would that I loved Thee with that tender love
with which Mary loved Thee. The angels and saints
loved Thee, my Jesus; let me also join them in their
love.
</p>

<p>
Offering.
</p>

<p>
I offer Thee my whole being; let it be unreservedly
Thine. Thou hast taken possession of
my heart, Thou art its Master; my whole life shall
be used for Thy greater honor and glory. Wherever
my influence may reach, there will I carry the name
of Jesus. Wherever the word of God may be announced,
I will glory in Thy name.
</p>

<p>
Thou, O Lord, art so full of love, and still Thou
art so little loved! O would that I could enkindle
all hearts with the fire of Thy love! Thou, O Lord,
art the Master of all hearts; we belong to Thee because
Thou hast created us, and when we rebelled
from Thee and became slaves of Satan, Thou didst
redeem us. What greater right have we than to belong
to Thee, to be subject to Thee, and to announce
Thy holy name to all, so that by our mutual example
we may be encouraged to live lives of sanctity?
</p>

<p>
O that all of us would have the love of the Infant
Jesus in our souls, and make earnest endeavors to
<pb n='064'/><anchor id='Pg064'/>
spread Thy love among all men! When, O Lord,
will I be dissolved, to live only with Thee? To Thee
my sighs and desires go up day and night. When
will I see Thy blessed countenance? When my time
comes to die, let me die in Thy love, so that I may
love Thee for all eternity. Thy will, O Jesus, be
done in all things, and let me delight to walk in Thy
footsteps.
</p>

<p>
Do with me what Thou wilt; I am willing to submit
to joy or sorrow, life or death, fortune or misfortune.
It is all indifferent to me as long as it is
Thy will, only give me the grace to endure adversity
with resignation. It will be a joy to me to fulfil
Thy holy will in all things.
</p>

<p>
Thanksgiving After Communion.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Adoration of Jesus in the Blessed Sacrament,
according to St. Francis de Sales.</hi>
</p>

<p>
How can I, O Lord Jesus Christ, praise Thee
sufficiently for having visited my soul in Thy
infinite goodness, by Thy divinity and Thy sacred
humanity, with Thy body and blood? I give Thee,
my Lord and my God, a loving welcome, Thou
Who art my Redeemer, my last end, my consolation,
my sweetest rest, my all. A thousand welcomes to
Thee, my dear Jesus, my good shepherd. In the
abyss of my nothingness I humbly adore Thee. I
adore Thy sacred flesh and blood, which Thou hast
given me for my food, and the pledge of my eternal
union with Thee. I adore Thy sacred head crowned
with thorns; I adore Thy eyes that have shed so
many tears for me; I adore Thy mouth, with which
Thou didst teach me eternal truths; I adore Thy
<pb n='065'/><anchor id='Pg065'/>
sacred countenance, which has been beaten for me
by cruel soldiers; Thy feet, that have been pierced
by the nails and fixed to the tree of the cross; Thy
arms, which were outstretched for me, for a loving embrace;
Thy side which the lance pierced, and from
which blood and water issued forth, the witnesses of
my redemption; Thy Heart, which loved me even
unto the death of the cross. My dear Redeemer, I
adore Thy sacred body, covered with innumerable
wounds which Thou didst suffer for me. I adore
Thy most holy soul, which was saddened unto death
in the Garden of Olives that I might reach eternal
life.
</p>

<p>
My dear Jesus, with great love I embrace Thee,
and I will remain faithful to Thee until my last hour.
Bless these feelings of a good heart: grant that no
storm of temptation may lead me again to be unfaithful
as I have repeatedly been heretofore.
</p>

<p>
A Pious Salutation To The Infant Jesus.
</p>

<p>
Hail, holy and adorable Infant Jesus, source of
mercy! Thou art the life of the sinner, unfathomable
ocean of divine sweetness, our hope, our
joy. To Thee, born in the dreary stable of Bethlehem,
we cry, poor children of Eve, to Thee we send
forth our sighs, to Thee we send up our lamentations
in this valley of tears. Turn then, O incarnate love,
Thine eyes of mercy towards us, O blessed fruit of
Thy Virgin Mother. As Thou didst show Thyself
full of kindness in the stable of Bethlehem, so show
unto us, after this miserable life, Thy divine mercy,
when Thou shalt come in the glory of Thy Father.
O sweet, O loving, O clement Infant Jesus! Amen.
</p>

<pb n='066'/><anchor id='Pg066'/>

<p>
Pious Invocation To The Infant Jesus.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>Father Elias Avillon.</hi>)
</p>

<p>
Hail, Infant Jesus, Thou fountain of mercy, Thou
life of the sinner dead in sin, Thou unfathomable
ocean of divine consolation, our hope and our
joy. Hail, to Thee, born in the desolate stable of
Bethlehem, do we cry, poor children of Eve. To
Thee do we sigh and bewail our misery from this
valley of tears. Turn then, O incarnate love of God,
Thine eyes of mercy upon us, Thou blessed fruit of
the womb of the Virgin Mary. As Thou didst show
poor humanity unbounded mercy from the manger,
so also continue Thy kindness during our life, until
after this miserable existence we arrive in the glory
of heaven, where we shall meet Thee, to praise and
glorify Thee for all eternity. O sweet, O pious, O
merciful Infant Jesus! Amen.
</p>

<p>
A Prayer To The Holy Name Of Jesus.
</p>

<p>
Eternal God, Father in heaven, daily do we
pray that Thy sacred name be sanctified, that
Thy kingdom come and Thy will be done. It is also
Thy holy will that the name of Thy beloved Son
should be glorified. Thou hast given Him a name at
which every knee should bend in heaven, on earth,
and under the earth. I pray Thee with all my heart
that Thou give us the grace to pronounce that holy
name with the greatest devotion, and to serve the
Lord with a good and willing heart. Engrave this
holy name on my heart, that I may never forget it.
Place it as a sign on my forehead, that I may ever be
faithful to it. O holy name of Jesus! my heart
rejoices when I hear thee mentioned. I feel great
<pb n='067'/><anchor id='Pg067'/>
consolation as often as I hear that holy name. Angels
of heaven, who are gathered in ecstasy about the
throne of God, praise with us on earth the sacred
name of Jesus; sing its praises worthily, as we cannot
sing it; invoke it for us also, that when our feeble
powers fail, thy holiness and zeal will supply our
deficiency. Thy holy name, O Jesus, be praised
forever!
</p>

<p>
Adoration of the Child Jesus in the Twelve Mysteries
of His Divine Infancy.
</p>

<p>
Dear Jesus, divine Infant of incomparable beauty,
of infinite goodness, I adore Thee, because
Thou art my Redeemer, and I love Thee. I make a
sacrifice to Thee of all my intellect, and of my heart,
and I thank Thee for having become a child for my
sake. I adore Thee in all the mysteries of Thy holy
childhood, and pray Thee to let me enter into the
spirit of it. Give me the grace to honor Thy childhood
all my life, and that I may imitate the virtues
which Thou dost inculcate by Thy example.
</p>

<p>
I adore Thee, O God of purity, at the moment
when the Holy Ghost formed Thy sacred body in the
bosom of the Virgin Mary, and beg of Thee the grace
to be always pure.
</p>

<p>
I adore Thee, O hidden God, hidden for nine
months in the womb of the Blessed Virgin, and I
desire to honor Thee by my perfect life.
</p>

<p>
I adore Thee, O Child of grace, in Thy visitation
to John the Baptist in order to sanctify him. Visit
also my soul, that I may live a saintly life and remain
faithful to the impulses of Thy grace.
</p>

<p>
I adore Thee, O Child Jesus, at the moment of
Thy birth, and I desire, with Thy help, that no other
<pb n='068'/><anchor id='Pg068'/>
fire burn in my heart than that which Thou camest
on this earth to kindle.
</p>

<p>
I adore Thee, O Spouse covered with wounds, in
the painful mystery of the circumcision. I conjure
Thee by the sacred blood which Thou didst then
shed for the first time for our salvation, that Thou
wilt give me the virtue of meekness, with which I am
to go through life, for Thy glory and the edification
of my neighbor.
</p>

<p>
I adore Thee, O Lord Jesus, with the Magi, who
came from the distant orient to adore Thee lying in
the crib in the stable. Give me the grace to be in
earnest in the work of my salvation.
</p>

<p>
Great God, Author of all sanctity, I adore Thee in
the Temple, where Thou didst present Thyself according
to the Law of Moses, to be offered to Thy
Father as His first-born Son. Give me grace to subject
myself to every law, even though it would imply
that I am a sinner, which I really am.
</p>

<p>
I adore Thee, humble Jesus, in Thy flight into
Egypt, and beg of Thee to give me the grace, by this
holy mystery of Thy life, of perfect humility of
heart.
</p>

<p>
I adore Thee, O Child Jesus, in Thy poverty, which
afflicted Thee in Thy stay in Egypt. Give me the
grace also to be poor in spirit, and endure actual
poverty with resignation.
</p>

<p>
I adore Thee, O Child Jesus, in Thy joyful and
triumphal return from Thy exile in Egypt to
Nazareth; give me the grace to overcome the enemies
of my salvation.
</p>

<p>
I adore Thee, O obedient Child Jesus, in Thy exact
compliance with the commands of Mary and Joseph;
give me the grace joyfully to obey my superiors.
</p>

<pb n='069'/><anchor id='Pg069'/>

<p>
I adore Thee, O Child Jesus, in the midst of the
doctors in the Temple of Jerusalem, when Thou didst
enlighten their minds on the sacred prophecies of the
Old Testament. Give me a Christian simplicity, that
I may believe all that Thou teachest me through the
holy Catholic Church.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='070'/><anchor id='Pg070'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>February. The Holy Family.</head>

<p>
What a beautiful sight is the Holy Family dwelling on
earth! God could not create anything more beautiful
than this Holy Family; He reached the limit of possibilities
in creation when He had accomplished this. It is indeed a
great example to us, and a model which we ought to hold before
our eyes during this month, in order that we may study the
foundations of what a holy family ought to be; what a life that
should be, where the holiest are bound together in ties of most
affectionate friendship and relationship.
</p>

<p>
Our Holy Father Leo XIII. has seen the great importance of
the Christian family: the family established by the laws of the
Church and the country, where marriages are legalized and
solemnized; where continence and modesty reign; where children,
under kind and parental subjection, are brought up to be
good men and women, good for religion and for society. When
poverty strikes such a family there is patience and forbearance
shown; when sickness and death come, there is
resignation to the will of God. In the Christian home there
is surpassing peace, and not that crazy restlessness that looks
for satisfaction in grasping at possessions, never satisfied day nor
night.
</p>

<p>
I do not think that this devotion has been appointed for this
month by any authority, except the idea that after having
adored the divine infancy during the month of January, the
devotion to the Holy Family may follow as a natural sequence.
Should any one desire to make this devotion during another
month, it would certainly not be out of the way, for save only
in a few cases has a certain devotion been assigned to a particular
time. The devotion to the Holy Family is a beautiful and
instructive one; the Christian family should be built on this
great model. The Holy Family consisted of Jesus, Mary, and
<pb n='071'/><anchor id='Pg071'/>
Joseph; the father, Mother, and Child. All other families
are made up of the same constituents.
</p>

<p>
Those who are actually in a family, or who intend to choose
that mode of life by which they may get to heaven, will love
this devotion and find instruction and consolation in it.
</p>

<p>
One of the greatest works of God in this world is the Holy
Family at Bethlehem and Nazareth. He sent down upon the
earth His only Son, Jesus Christ; prepared a most holy Mother
for Him, Mary immaculate, and selected for Him a foster-father
and a protector. He held them together in the most
tender family ties of father, Mother, and Child. He kept them
in that relation until St. Joseph died a blessed death, and the
Lord Jesus went forth on His sacred mission of teaching and
redeeming mankind.
</p>

<p>
What a beautiful sight to us poor human beings! what a
glory to God was that Holy Family, dwelling in the humble
abode of Nazareth! We find here the model on which we
shall reflect for this month of February. We will consecrate
this month to praising God with the members of the Holy
Family; we will study the ways by which they were so pleasing
to God, and we will draw from these considerations many
valuable lessons for our own conduct.
</p>

<p>
Our Holy Father, Pope Leo XIII., with an ever-watchful
eye to the necessities of our time, has seen the importance of a
devotion to the Holy Family, and has recommended it to the
faithful, and with his own authority established a sodality of
the Holy Family; he has invested it with many indulgences
in order to encourage the faithful in taking the Holy Family as
their model. Here is, then, a practical way to teach ourselves
the way of salvation by the example of others.
</p>

<p>
It is therefore a most useful practice of piety to become
members of the sodality of the Holy Family; you will then
place yourselves under its special protection, and choose Jesus,
Mary, and Joseph for your particular advocates before God.
Look upon the members of the Holy Family as the most perfect
models for imitation, whose examples will teach you what to
correct and what to avoid, what to do for your temporal and
eternal welfare, and that of your families.
</p>

<pb n='072'/><anchor id='Pg072'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Considerations and Prayers for Every Day.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>First Day.</head>

<p>
In an apostolic brief of June 14, 1892, the Holy
Father, Pope Leo XIII., demonstrates how the
welfare of the family and of the State depends chiefly
on education, and that it is of the utmost importance
that a religious spirit be fostered in the Christian
family. From the first family, God so arranged the
method and order of such a life as to exhibit to the
world a form of a divinely ordered association, in
which all human beings might behold a most complete
model of family life, and of all virtue and holiness.
The devotion to the Holy Family, a holy and a
powerful institution before God and man, has increased
very much within a few years, and it is worth
our while to think of this on the first day of our
monthly devotion, and appreciate it as we ought.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most loving Jesus, Who didst hallow by Thy
surpassing virtues, and the example of Thy
home life, the household Thou didst choose to
live in whilst on earth, mercifully look down upon
this family, whose members, humbly prostrate before
Thee, implore Thy protection. Remember that we
are Thine, bound and consecrated to Thee by a
special devotion. Protect us in Thy mercy, deliver
us from danger, help us in our necessities, and impart
to us strength to persevere always in the imitation
of Thy Holy Family, so that, by serving Thee
and loving Thee faithfully during this mortal life,
we may at length give Thee eternal praise in heaven.
<pb n='073'/><anchor id='Pg073'/>
O Mary, dearest Mother, we implore thy assistance,
knowing that thy divine Son will hearken to
thy petitions; and do thou, most glorious patriarch
St. Joseph, help us with thy powerful patronage, and
place our petitions in Mary's hands that she may
offer them to Jesus Christ. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Second Day.</head>

<p>
Within our own time the devotion to the Holy
Family has grown under the fostering care of
the Supreme Pontiff, who has authorized the establishment
of associations throughout the world, by
which men and women, married and unmarried, are
gathered into one fold from the standpoint of the
family. The Holy Father desires that all the faithful
of the Catholic Church should consider this association
as a consecration to the Christian life, and that
they will feel that they are bound to lead a holy life
because their association is established and legalized by
God. For what is the Sacrament of Matrimony but
the legalizing of the family before God and man?
Let us consider the family as a special institution of
God's providence for the preservation of the world,
and the propagating in it of sound principles of
learning and religion.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most loving Jesus, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Third Day.</head>

<p>
We are to consecrate ourselves to God under the
union of a family. That is the pretence with
which we come before God, to claim His kindness
and mercy because we belong to a family. We are
<pb n='074'/><anchor id='Pg074'/>
not isolated creatures, looking for our selfish ends, but
we are a union of individuals constituted under a certain
authority, which gives us a claim to the respect
of God and man; for God has said, <q>Where there are
two or three gathered together in My name, there am
I in the midst of them.</q>&mdash;Matt. xviii. 20. The
formula of consecration of a Christian family has
been given us by the Sovereign Pontiff himself;
rules, regulations, and by-laws have been given to this
society under the same authority of the Holy Father.
The whole Christian family should be so united among
themselves, that there be but one family under one
head, set over all to rule them by its supreme power.
We belong to this Christian family of the Church;
let us then unite for the common good of all.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most loving Jesus, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fourth Day.</head>

<p>
The scope of the pious association of the Holy
Family is that all Christian families be consecrated
to the Holy Family of Nazareth, placing it
before themselves for veneration and imitation; offering
up every day before its image prayers in its
honor, and practising in their lives the sublime virtues
which the Holy Family offered for imitation to
every grade of society. The rich will find a model
before them, the learned and highly educated will
know exactly what to do according to the dignity of
their position, the working class, especially, will find
here the guidance and friendship needed in their
temptations and troubles. The Holy Family is a
<pb n='075'/><anchor id='Pg075'/>
poor, working, humble family, as poor as the poorest,
as laborious as the most hard-working, as humble as
the most lowly.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most loving Jesus, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fifth Day.</head>

<p>
The picture of the Holy Family should be in every
household; it is a perpetual reminder, placed
in tangible form, of our dear Lord, our blessed Lady,
and our friend, St. Joseph, who were the members of
the Holy Family. We often are interested in the
pictures of great persons, and take delight in representations
of angels and holy people. What is the
secret of this inclination? Why, we can see those
whom we wish to imitate, and grow to know their
good and holy lives through their pictures. The
Holy Father has approved one special picture which
is to be the emblem of this association: Mary and
Joseph, holding the youth Jesus between them by the
hand. Jesus is not an infant, for this picture is to
bring to mind the fact that His parents had to suffer
care and anxiety in order to bring Him to this stage
of boyhood, for which noble duty they were fitted by
special providence and by special faithfulness.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most loving Jesus, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Sixth Day.</head>

<p>
<q>We have good hopes,</q> says the Holy Father,
concluding his encyclical letter, <q>that all
<pb n='076'/><anchor id='Pg076'/>
to whom the salvation of souls is committed, especially
the bishops, will make themselves partners and
sharers of our zeal in promoting this pious association.
For those who recognize and deplore with us the
change and corruption of Christian morals, the extinction
of the love of religion and piety in families,
and the passion for earthly goods, enkindled beyond
measure, will desire exceedingly to apply suitable
remedies for so many grievous evils. Since nothing
can be more salutary and efficacious for Christian
families than the example of the Holy Family, let
care be taken that as many families as possible, especially
those of the working classes, against which
insidious forces are more strongly exercised, enroll
themselves in this association. Let the association
be on its guard, lest it swerve from its purpose, or
change its spirit&mdash;rather let the practices of piety and
the prayers which have been determined on to be
preserved intact. May Jesus, Mary, and Joseph, thus
besought within the family circle, be graciously present!
May they foster charity, regulate morals, incite
all that imitate them to virtue, and alleviate and render
more bearable the hardships which oppress mankind!</q>
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most loving Jesus, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Seventh Day.</head>

<p>
A plenary indulgence after a sincere confession
and a worthy communion, and praying for
the intentions of His Holiness, may be gained by the
members of the association on the following days:
First, on the day of their entrance into the association,
<pb n='077'/><anchor id='Pg077'/>
after they have recited the act of consecration.
Second, on the day of a general meeting, when all
go to communion in a body, and renew their promises.
Third, on the feasts of the Nativity (Christmas),
the Circumcision, Epiphany, Easter and Ascension.
Fourth, on the feasts of the Blessed Virgin: Immaculate
Conception, Nativity, Annunciation, Purification,
Assumption. Fifth, also on the following
days: feast of St. Joseph in March, Patronage of St.
Joseph, Third Sunday after Easter, Espousal of the
Blessed Virgin on the twenty-third of January.
Sixth, on the feast of the Holy Family, and Seventh,
at the hour of death.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most loving Jesus, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Eighth Day.</head>

<p>
Partial indulgences may be gained when visiting
a church where the association is established,
provided the members pray for the prosperity of
Christendom, and for the intention of the Holy
Father. Seven years and seven quarantines may be
gained on the feasts of the Visitation, Presentation,
and the Patronage of the Blessed Virgin. The same
indulgences may be gained by the family in the reunion
in prayer among themselves, if they pray before
a picture of the Holy Family. The same also,
whenever the members attend a public meeting of
the association. Three hundred days' indulgence is
granted as often as a member of the association recites,
before a picture of the Holy Family, the prayer
<q>O most loving Jesus,</q> etc., etc. The members
<pb n='078'/><anchor id='Pg078'/>
may gain an indulgence of two hundred days when
they make the salutation: <q>Jesus, Mary, and Joseph,
enlighten us, aid us, save us. Amen.</q> One hundred
days for every new member that is brought to the
association, and sixty days for every good work done
in honor of the Holy Family. All these indulgences
are applicable to the souls in purgatory.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most loving Jesus, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ninth Day.</head>

<p>
The Catholic Christian has the true faith which
comes to him from Jesus Christ, the Founder
of the true Church. He ought, then, to show by
his conduct that his faith has made him better than
so many others, who have not had the graces and
advantages which came to him. In other words, it
is not enough to believe the truths that God has revealed;
it is not enough to belong to the true
Church by the internal adhesion of the mind; it is
indispensably necessary to manifest our faith in exterior
works. Our faith should so have penetrated
our whole being, that the profession of religion
should show itself in all our actions. Faith without
works is dead, and at the Last Judgment the almighty
Judge will demand of us an account of all our
actions, and then will He render to every one the
merited reward or punishment. Let it be our aim in
life to fill the days of our stay on earth with many
good actions, the outcome of our faith, so that when
we stand before the throne of God, we may have
many glorious deeds to our credit.
</p>

<pb n='079'/><anchor id='Pg079'/>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most loving Jesus, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Tenth Day.</head>

<p>
A Christian considers his faith as a gift of
heaven, a priceless treasure far surpassing
any earthly wealth, because it raises man to a true
knowledge of God and secures for him his eternal
salvation. He rejects with horror the maxims of our
modern infidels, who say, <q>One religion is as good
as another</q>; <q>Hell is only a bugbear</q>; <q>The
faith of the heart is enough for salvation,</q> and many
others of the same nature. He rejects them because
he knows that God is one, that the truth that comes
from God is one, and that therefore faith must be
one, and religion one. He knows that religion cannot
be framed according to the whims of man, but
only can come from the authority of God in His holy
revelation. He will not associate with those who
hold the above false doctrines; he will be an enemy
of bad books, which teach errors of faith and which
drag those who read them into the mire of immorality,
and he will caution his friends against them.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most loving Jesus, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Eleventh Day.</head>

<p>
The Catholic Church was founded by Jesus Christ
as a perfect society, with authority to make
laws, with power to punish the guilty, and to expel
rebellious subjects from her midst. This power was
<pb n='080'/><anchor id='Pg080'/>
given to the Church by Christ when He said, <q>And
whatsoever thou shalt bind upon earth, it shall be
bound also in heaven.</q> It is clear that Christ intended
His Church to be our guide in all our actions,
as an authority to teach us what the revelation is
concerning our future state. We should, therefore,
be obedient and faithful children of the Church. We
should be grateful to God, Who in His mercy has
established certain fountains of grace, which are
found in the Church, and are guarded by her.
These fountains of grace are the sacraments, which
point out the holy states of life, and the true manner
of pleasing God. We should use the Sacraments of
Penance and Holy Eucharist for the remedy of our
faults, and the strength of our weakness.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most loving Jesus, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twelfth Day.</head>

<p>
Confession is the correction of our faults, and if
we have sinned let us remember we have an
advocate in heaven, to Whom we wish to return in
the sincerity of our hearts. The Holy Eucharist is
the body and blood of Christ and communion the
partaking of it.
</p>

<p>
We should not, therefore, be deterred from frequenting
these sacraments by human considerations,
or by the mockery of the people of this world. We
should have these words of Christ deeply engraven
in our hearts: <q>Except you eat the flesh of the Son
of man, and drink His blood, you shall not have life
in you.</q>&mdash;John vi. 54. A devout Catholic is
<pb n='081'/><anchor id='Pg081'/>
easily distinguished from the crowd of careless ones,
when we see him humbly and frequently going to
confession and to holy communion.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most loving Jesus, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirteenth Day.</head>

<p>
Be also reverent and devout in the house of God;
not brought there by vain curiosity, or by
fashion, but by unfeigned piety, rendering to God an
external tribute of dependence and adoration. Look
upon priests as the ambassadors of God, treat them
with respect, listen to their teaching, and put it into
practice. Reverence the bishops as divinely constituted
guardians and teachers in the Church: especially
the see of St. Peter, the Vicar of Christ, the
Roman Pontiff, the Father and teacher, in whom is
intrusted the plentitude of power to rule the whole
Catholic family. Reverence the infallible authority
of the Pope, which guides you in matters of faith, in
form of worship, and morality.
</p>

<p>
Accept with docility and obedience the decisions
of the Holy See, and conform to them your opinions
and thoughts. Do not follow the changeable and
novel opinions of our infidel age.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most loving Jesus, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fourteenth Day.</head>

<p>
The true Christian must not only profess the
faith, but also the laws of Christ. He is
<pb n='082'/><anchor id='Pg082'/>
anxious to observe them exactly and to observe
them all, knowing that he is guilty of damnation
who violates the law in one important point.
This law bids us to love all men as fellow creatures,
to love our relatives, our country, but above
all, and before all, we must love God, the
Author of our being, the great loving Father of
heaven. The honor of God is the very first duty of
man, who as a rational being knows God and His
infinite goodness; we wish to serve Him as His
subjects, render Him the homage due to His immensity,
a worship which our infinite littleness
renders to God. Never profane the word of God
yourself, and prevent curses and oaths in others as far
as possible. By acts of praise and benediction let
us repair the offences against God when we cannot
prevent them. At least pray for those who use the
name of God in vain, and thus endeavor to ward off
from them the eternal punishment due to that wicked
practice.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most loving Jesus, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fifteenth Day.</head>

<p>
Contribute your share towards the glorification of
the name of God, by observing the Sundays
and festivals of the Church. God has expressly
reserved these days to Himself, and has pointed them
out by the authority of the Church. In the Old and
in the New Law, God has had days of rest and of
religious practices; and for the observances of these
He has promised publicly that there should be many
rewards. Every good, God-fearing man will give a
<pb n='083'/><anchor id='Pg083'/>
just tribute of respect to God, because God wills it,
and because he is looking for some benefit from God.
Abstain then from servile works on those days, no
matter what temporal gains may be expected, and be
careful that others, too, keep holy the Sabbath
of the Lord, particularly those who are intrusted to
your care and command. Do not have work done
on Sunday, and allow none to be done about your
premises.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most loving Jesus, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Sixteenth Day.</head>

<p>
Respect your parents, superiors, and masters,
and all those who hold positions of trust
towards you. They hold the authority of God,
and he who despises them despises God Himself.
Honor and respect those superiors as representatives
of God, and obey them in all things that are not
against His law; and so we come to that great
second commandment, which is like unto the first:
<q>Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself.</q> We
should do unto others as we would wish that others
should do unto us; that is, we should look upon one
another as children of one great family, of which
God is the heavenly Father. <q>By this shall all men
know that you are My disciples, if you have love one
for another,</q> not showing this love through politeness
only, but through a real, downright feeling of
interest in others, and without a selfish regard of our
own interests. Try to perform spiritual and corporal
works of mercy for your neighbor.
</p>

<pb n='084'/><anchor id='Pg084'/>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most loving Jesus, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Seventeenth Day.</head>

<p>
In all your intercourse with others respect their
persons and property; do not look for unjust
gains; be faithful to your bargains and contracts;
never look to your own selfish interests solely. Never
speak ill of anybody, nor circulate detractions, nor
reveal secrets and defects that might lessen the
esteem in which any one is held; excuse the faults
of others, and find some excuse for the intention
with which even an evil action is committed. We
are all temples of the Holy Ghost, sanctified and ennobled
by the blood of Christ. We are the dwellings
of the Holy Trinity, called to a heavenly inheritance.
Do not desecrate this sacred temple by
impurity; guard against impure thoughts and immodest
desires, flee from dangerous occasions. Avoid
foolishly pursuing the luxuries and vanities of the
world, improper company, and bad conversation.
Do not enter theatres or places of amusement where
your morals are endangered, and from which you
carry nothing but pictures of immoral objects. Arm
yourself most effectually against the approach of evil
by the powerful shield of prayer, and walk in the
presence of God.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most loving Jesus, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Eighteenth Day.</head>

<p>
So far we have considered the law of God practically
interpreted in our every-day life; let us
<pb n='085'/><anchor id='Pg085'/>
go still further and endeavor to learn the laws of the
Church, for the Lord has said: <q>He that heareth
you, heareth Me; and he that despiseth you despiseth
Me,</q> and <q>If he will not hear the Church
let him be to thee as the heathen and publican.</q> On
Sundays and holydays of obligation, we ought to
hear Mass. We should observe the feasts of the
Church and the restriction from flesh meat on Fridays
and other days of abstinence. Remember that these
little acts of mortification are a great benefit to us,
since the Lord has commanded, <q>That we should
bring forth fruits worthy of penance.</q> Make your
Easter duty, for the Church has laid down the law
that you should fulfil those duties, not from routine
or human respect, but with the knowledge of the
needs of your soul.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most loving Jesus, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Nineteenth Day.</head>

<p>
What an exalted opinion we should have of
Christian piety! It inspires the Christian
man and woman with lofty ideas, and prepares them
for noble undertakings. These lessons of piety
should be planted early in the hearts of the young,
that they may take root and grow up to a magnificent
fruit of mature virtue. Serve God as a loving and
dutiful child, cherish a great devotion to the Blessed
Virgin, and have recourse to her in all your wants,
being sure that all your petitions will meet with a
ready and hearty response. Never forget these three
truths, which should be the main considerations of
<pb n='086'/><anchor id='Pg086'/>
the true Christian on every occasion: First, That
sin is the only evil which should be feared; Second,
The grace of God is the real good for which we
should strive with all our heart; Third, The salvation
of the soul is the all-important business of our lives,
for which we were created, and which should be
looked after with that care which it deserves.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most loving Jesus, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twentieth Day.</head>

<p>
The husband, as head of the family, owes to his
wife fidelity, love, and support. Fidelity is
that constancy of affection which he has promised at
his marriage, and which must be preserved inviolable
until death; it means that purity of soul and body
which will not permit itself to be degraded by impurity
and adultery. Conjugal fidelity is a great and
holy duty, in which matrimony is held sacred.
There you find peace, happiness, and the blessing of
almighty God. Our Lord was very stringent upon
this point, for He says: <q>Whosoever shall look on
a woman to lust after her, hath already committed
adultery with her in his heart.</q>&mdash;Matt. v. 28. Whosoever
then commits adultery transgresses a most important
divine commandment. In the Old Law this
crime was punished by stoning the guilty person to
death, and in the primitive Church by a severe public
penance of many years' duration. What fidelity
does not the husband demand of the wife! With
the same strictness is he obliged to be faithful to her
whom he has chosen as his life companion.
</p>

<pb n='087'/><anchor id='Pg087'/>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most loving Jesus, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-first Day.</head>

<p>
The second duty of the husband and wife is conjugal
love. The word conjugal means joined
together, because husband and wife are united to bear
the same burden. The Apostle says: <q>Husbands,
love your wives, as Christ also loved the Church, and
delivered Himself up for it.</q>&mdash;Ephes. v. 25. Husband
and wife are individuals whom God has joined
in inseparable companionship. The greatest bond
between mankind, and the sweetest one, is conjugal
love, of which we are thinking on this day consecrated
to the Holy Family. Keep this great duty
before your eyes and never forget it, for it is easily
destroyed. It is from that love, too, that should
spring your children, who are to grow up to take
your place in the Church and the State. These children
you are to bring up in the fear and love of God,
faithful to the Church and their fatherland. A tremendous
responsibility!
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most loving Jesus, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-second Day.</head>

<p>
The husband is the main worker in the family, so
that his duty is to provide for his family by
his industry and economy. He must look for employment
<pb n='088'/><anchor id='Pg088'/>
and strive to keep it, so as to have a
never-failing source of income, by which his people
may live in comparative comfort. There are husbands
who will allow their wives and children to
work, while they themselves live idle lives, which is
the fashion of the untutored Indian. Not only must
the husband work, but he must live in economy, and
not throw his money away foolishly in gaming or in
drunkenness. The most frequent cause of a husband
and father's failure to provide for his family is
drunkenness. Drunkenness causes woe, sin, sorrow
and shame. Drunkenness besots the mind, and
makes of an intelligent being a brute in his passions,
and a fool in his actions; it extinguishes the spirit of
God in him, all sentiments of religion are lost, the
Church of God is despised and disgraced. Drunkenness
does as much harm as the greatest vices, bringing
ruin with it whenever indulged in.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most loving Jesus, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-third Day.</head>

<p>
The husband has to share the care of the children
and he should look after the instruction of the
child. Children are a great treasure, worth more
than all the wealth of the world. The Lord said of
them to the apostles: <q>Suffer the little children to
come unto Me, and forbid them not: for of such is
the kingdom of God.</q> And why is the Lord so
anxious for the welfare of the innocent child? Because
it is a weak human being, unable to help itself,
<pb n='089'/><anchor id='Pg089'/>
destined for heaven, redeemed by the blood of Jesus,
and a temple of the Holy Ghost, more fitted to be
such on account of the purity of its soul. Now the
care of this child is given to the father and the
mother, under whose care it is to grow up a true
Christian, an exemplary member of the Church of
God; to live on until it has fulfilled its days and the
duties of its state of life, when, like yourself, having
come to the fulness of maturity, it is gathered in to
render an account of its life work to almighty God.
The success of the child's life depends chiefly on the
manner in which its parents fulfil their duty.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most loving Jesus, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-fourth Day.</head>

<p>
In what special duties are you to instruct your
children? First of all, let the young children
learn early to pray, make them think of God, speak
to them of His love for mankind, teach them to
adore Him, because He has created them, to thank
Him for all His benefits which flow to them so
abundantly, to ask Him with confidence for all the
graces that they need. Correct the children for their
faults: Lying, stealing, cursing, stubbornness, disobedience,
fighting, and cruelty. Have an eye very
early on their morals, for little children learn to do
wicked things, by which they lose the love and grace
of God. Be not a tyrant, but a sensible, religious
father or mother, and see to it that the children
are free from these vices. Give them no bad example,
<pb n='090'/><anchor id='Pg090'/>
especially by using profanity, or by getting
intoxicated. All this presupposes perpetual vigilance;
remember you will have to render a strict
account of these things before God.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most loving Jesus, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-fifth Day.</head>

<p>
Having considered the husband's duties, we must
now look at the duty of a wife. The Scriptures
say of the wife: <q>A good wife is a good portion;
she shall be given in the portion of them that
fear God, to a man for his good deeds.</q>&mdash;Eccles.
xxvi. 3. There is nothing in the whole world more
precious than a good wife. <q>A wise woman buildeth
her house: but the foolish will pull down with her
hands that also which is built.</q>&mdash;Prov. xiv. 1. A
wife must love her husband, and she owes him the
most scrupulous fidelity; if the first duty of the husband
is to love his wife, so also is there a corresponding
duty to return that love. She must be
patient with him when he comes home murmuring
against his fate; she must make the home agreeable
to him by cleanliness and cheerfulness. She must
bear the burdens of this life with her husband, and
encourage him, that he may not be despondent.
The wife must be sober, not given to scolding and
fault-finding. <q>Let women be subject to their husbands,
as to the Lord; because the husband is the
head of the wife, as Christ is the head of the Church.</q>&mdash;Ephes.
v. 22.
</p>

<pb n='091'/><anchor id='Pg091'/>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most loving Jesus, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-sixth Day.</head>

<p>
The conscientious observance of the marriage
vows is to be a supreme law to the wife. Purity
must be the virtue principally looked to in marriage,
according to the laws of the Sacrament of Matrimony;
the wife's motto must be that of Susanna of
old, who said: <q>I will rather die than sin before
God.</q> The wife owes her husband a compliance at
least to his wishes; not exactly an abject obedience,
but that the husband and wife consult with each
other, and that she comply in all lawful and sensible
things. This subjection is founded on the Scriptures.
God Himself said to Eve, <q>Thou shalt be under thy
husband's power, and he shall have dominion over
thee</q> (Gen. iii. 16), and St. Paul declares, <q>Let
women be subject to their husbands as to the Lord.</q>&mdash;Ephes.
v. 22. The loving, true, and obedient
wife exerts an unbounded influence for good over
her husband. She will make him great in the eyes
of men, she will make him respectable and presentable
in society; in short, she will make the married
life a truly happy one from beginning to end.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most loving Jesus, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-seventh Day.</head>

<p>
The wife has a sublime calling to be a mother.
What is more beautiful than motherhood?
<pb n='092'/><anchor id='Pg092'/>
what is more useful to the new-born humanity than
the mother? All the world recognizes her dignity,
and respects her. A Christian mother will consider
the child a gift from God, which though given to
her, still belongs to God; hers is the first care of
the newly-born infant, her care and love will not relax
for all time to come. She is always the mother.
Have the child presented for Baptism at the very
earliest moment; if it be in danger of death see that
it receives private baptism. Then start out in patience
and kindness to rear it, giving it a secular but
above all a religious training, as the child must be prepared
to take its place as a good member of society
and of the Church. Hence prayers must be taught,
and care must be taken that they are recited with piety
and regularity; the dogmas of the Church must be
impressed on the child. At home it has to learn all
that pertains to the spiritual life of the holy Roman
Catholic Church, of which it is a member. Secular
learning must be imparted, too, as much as possible
in schools belonging to the Church, so that the very
best education may be secured for the child.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most loving Jesus, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-eighth Day.</head>

<p>
The mother must watch over the children, and be
very careful of the company they keep. She
must see that prayers are said morning and night,
before and after meals, that they go regularly to
church on Sundays, and to school every day. When
they are able to go to work, give them an occupation
<pb n='093'/><anchor id='Pg093'/>
so that they will not be idle. Keep a vigilant
eye on your grown-up sons and daughters. They
are forming acquaintances which perhaps are not
good for them; their associations may not be the
best. Unrestricted, unobserved meetings should not
be allowed, for they excite the passions. When the
time of their marriage comes, pray to almighty God
that they may find such partners as will be a help to
them for the rest of their lives, and lead them on in
sanctity to their eternal salvation. As you have been
a good mother to your children, they will respect
your memory, will pray for you when you are gone,
and will imitate your virtues. The memory of a good
mother lives forever.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most loving Jesus, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-ninth Day.</head>

<p>
The principal feast during the month of February
is the feast of the Purification of the Blessed
Virgin, or Candlemas. On that day Mary goes to
the Temple, because the days of her purification are
over. For forty days she was excluded from the
Temple as being impure. Mary, as we know, was
holy and good, and did not need to subject herself
to the Law of Moses; but she was obedient and permitted
herself to be regarded as an ordinary woman.
There in the Temple she presented her first-born Son
to God. He belongs to God already, He is God;
He is the victim by whose atonement a permanent
reconciliation is effected between God and man.
The gates of heaven are opened, and the places made
vacant by the fall of the angels are to be filled.
<pb n='094'/><anchor id='Pg094'/>
Mary brings with her the offering of the poor, a pair
of turtle-doves as a ransom. God has accepted the
sacrifice of His divine Son, made for Him by His
holy Mother. O holy Virgin! do thou also make
propitiation to the Father for us poor sinners, that
we may be acceptable to God, may belong to God,
and may spend our lives in His service.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most loving Jesus, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Litany of the Holy Family.</head>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>For Private Devotion Only.</hi>)
</p>

<lg>
<l>Lord, have mercy on us.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Lord, have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Christ, have mercy on us.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Christ, have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Lord, have mercy on us.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Lord, have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Christ, hear us.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Christ, graciously hear us.</hi></l>
<l>God, the Father of heaven, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us</hi>.</l>
<l>God, the Son, Redeemer of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us</hi>.</l>
<l>God, the Holy Ghost, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us</hi>.</l>
<l>Holy Trinity, one God, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us</hi>.</l>
<l>Jesus, Mary, and Joseph, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us</hi>.</l>
<l>Jesus, Mary, and Joseph, worthy subjects of our reverence
and love, <hi rend='italic'>We all have recourse to you.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, Mary, and Joseph, by the voice of the ages called
the Holy Family, <hi rend='italic'>We all have recourse to you.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, Mary, and Joseph, names forever blessed, of the
father, the Mother, and the Child, who compose the
Holy Family, <hi rend='italic'>We all have recourse to you.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, Mary, and Joseph, pure husband, pure spouse, and
divine Child, restorers of the family, degraded before
Christianity, <hi rend='indent'>We all have recourse to you.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, Mary, and Joseph, image of the august Trinity on
earth, <hi rend='indent'>We all have recourse to you.</hi></l>
<pb n='095'/><anchor id='Pg095'/>
<l>Holy Family, whose chaste union was prepared for by an
innocent and virtuous youth, <hi rend='italic'>We all have recourse to you.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Family, tried by great contradictions, <hi rend='italic'>We all have recourse to you.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Family, afflicted in the journey to Bethlehem, <hi rend='italic'>We all have recourse to you.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Family, repulsed by all, and forced to take refuge in
a stable, <hi rend='italic'>We all have recourse to you.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Family, greeted by the concert of angels, <hi rend='italic'>We all have recourse to you.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Family, visited by the poor shepherds, <hi rend='italic'>We all have recourse to you.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Family, extolled by holy Simeon, <hi rend='italic'>We all have recourse to you.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Family, persecuted and exiled to a strange land, <hi rend='italic'>We all have recourse to you.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Family, hidden and unknown at Nazareth, <hi rend='italic'>We all have recourse to you.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Family, faithful to the law of God, <hi rend='italic'>We all have recourse to you.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Family, model of the Christian family, <hi rend='italic'>We all have recourse to you.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Family, in which reign peace and concord, <hi rend='italic'>We all have recourse to you.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Family, whose head is a model of paternal vigilance, <hi rend='italic'>We all have recourse to you.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Family, whose spouse is a model of maternal solicitude, <hi rend='italic'>We all have recourse to you.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Family, whose Child is a model of obedience and
filial piety, <hi rend='italic'>We all have recourse to you.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Family, who led a poor, laborious, and penitent life, <hi rend='italic'>We all have recourse to you.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Family, who earned your bread by the sweat of your
brow, <hi rend='indent'>We all have recourse to you.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Family, poor in goods of the earth, but rich in goods
of heaven, <hi rend='indent'>We all have recourse to you.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Family, despised by men, but great in God's eyes, <hi rend='indent'>We all have recourse to you.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Family, our support during life and our hope at the
hour of our death, <hi rend='indent'>We all have recourse to you.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Family, patron and protector of our associates, Jesus,
Mary, and Joseph, <hi rend='indent'>We all have recourse to you.</hi></l>
<l>Lamb of God, Who takest away the sins of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Spare us, O Lord</hi>!</l>
<l>Lamb of God, Who takest away the sins of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Graciously hear us, O Lord</hi>!</l>
<l>Lamb of God, Who takest away the sins of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us, O Lord</hi>!</l>
<l>Jesus, hear us. <hi rend='italic'>Jesus, graciously hear us.</hi></l>
</lg>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Let Us Pray.</hi>
</p>

<p>
O God of goodness and mercy, Who hast vouchsafed to call
us to this pious association of the Holy Family, grant us
the grace always to honor and imitate Jesus, Mary, and Joseph;
<pb n='096'/><anchor id='Pg096'/>
that having pleased them on earth we may enjoy their company
forever in heaven. Through Jesus Christ Our Lord. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Memorare To Mary.</head>

<p>
Remember, O most loving Virgin Mary! that no
one ever had recourse to thy protection, implored
thy aid, or sought thy mediation without obtaining
relief. Confiding, therefore, in thy goodness
and mercy, we cast ourselves at thy sacred feet,
and do most humbly supplicate thee, O Mother of the
Eternal Word! to adopt us as thy children and to
take upon thyself the care of our salvation. O let
it not be said, our dearest Mother, that we have perished,
where no one ever found but mercy, grace, and
salvation. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Form Of Renewing The Baptismal Vows.</head>

<p>
Humbly prostrate before Thee, O my God! and
before the Holy Family, Jesus, Mary, and
Joseph, I return my grateful thanks for the inestimable
benefit bestowed upon me, of being born and
educated in the Catholic Church, of which I was
made a child by Baptism. I thus received a right to
the graces which Jesus Christ dispenses through the
sacraments, the happiness of being admitted into the
number of the children of the true faith, and the hope
of one day entering paradise. I come to renew and
ratify the promises made at my Baptism. Yes, O
my God! I desire to belong entirely to Thee, to
serve Thee all my life, and strive always for the end
for which I was created. Therefore I renounce
Satan and all his works, sin and its occasions. I renounce
<pb n='097'/><anchor id='Pg097'/>
the world, its maxims and vanities. I
renounce the flesh and its concupiscences, all irregular
desires, and whatever may be displeasing to Thee.
I renounce human respect, which for so long kept
me from Thee. Formerly I feared the world and its
ridicule, now I have but one fear, that of forgetting
my religious duties. I will henceforth faithfully
perform them, I will live according to the precepts
and maxims of Jesus Christ, I will be a good Christian.
O Jesus, Mary, and Joseph! make me more and
more worthy of the name. Through the help of your
powerful protection, may I be a respectful child of
God, submissive to the Church, faithful to my duties,
that I may one day have the happiness of thanking
and glorifying you in the heavenly country. I am
resolved to live according to the precepts and maxims
of Jesus Christ; yes, I desire to live a good
Christian life, that I may die the death of the elect.
I promise to remain faithful to my obligations as an
associate of the Holy Family, and hope to persevere
until death. And at that moment what happiness it
will be for me to pass from the arms of Jesus, Mary,
and Joseph on earth, to the arms of the Father, Son,
and Holy Ghost in heaven, for all eternity. This is
my hope. Amen.
</p>

<p>
An indulgence of forty days.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Act Of Consecration.</head>

<p>
O Jesus, Mary, Joseph, I, N. N., in sight of the
whole celestial court, choose you this day for
my patrons and protectors. I offer, and solemnly
consecrate to you in this association, my body and
soul, all I have and all I am. I promise to live as a
<pb n='098'/><anchor id='Pg098'/>
good Christian, that I may die the death of the predestined.
What happiness for me to pass one day
from the arms of Jesus, Mary, and Joseph on earth,
to the arms of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost in
heaven, for all eternity. This is my hope. Amen.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='099'/><anchor id='Pg099'/>


<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>March. St. Joseph.</head>

<p>
We can easily imagine that the foster-father of the Infant
Jesus must have been a great man in the eyes of God.
His duties were very important; they called for such a self-sacrificing
character. We wish to imitate his virtues this month;
we wish to praise almighty God for all the distinctions which He
has showered upon St. Joseph; we want to belong to St.
Joseph, to be associated with him in heaven, and even now
while we are still on earth, for prayer associates us here with
those whom we address above. The saints hear our prayers by
God's favor, and they reply at once. We need many things,
and so we are going to pray to St. Joseph, especially during
this month, for whatever we want. Go confidently and make
out a list of your necessities, write them down, and look over
them occasionally to see whether your petitions have been
granted.
</p>

<p>
St. Joseph is all-powerful before God; whatever we ask of
him we are sure to obtain; this has been the experience of many
good Christians; it will also be your experience if you sincerely
try it.
</p>

<p>
St. Joseph sanctified labor, poverty, and privations, by bearing
them with patience, humility, and resignation to the will of
God. We have many trials in life to endure, we have need of
these virtues; let us look to it that we acquire them for our own
spiritual comfort. Let us bear with patience all these trials;
patience makes things bearable, for without this virtue we would
sink in despair.
</p>

<p>
The feast of St. Joseph is celebrated on the nineteenth of
March, and for this reason the month of March is dedicated to
honor, venerate, and pray to this great friend of God. The
Church has in various ways encouraged this devotion. Her
devout children have taken it up, so that we find the month of
March as much dedicated to St. Joseph as the month of May to
the Blessed Virgin. Catholics hold St. Joseph in high veneration,
<pb n='100'/><anchor id='Pg100'/>
and deservedly so, as we will see in the following meditations
on his life. They have great confidence in his power
before God, they know that he is a great saint, and a great
favorite with the Almighty. Many examples of virtue has this
loved saint given to us: his love of poverty, his assiduous
labors, his resignation to the will of God in the most trying
circumstances, are practical virtues, which we may endeavor to
acquire for our own spiritual as well as temporal welfare. The
affairs of human life are such, that we often find ourselves having
to sustain hard trials, in which we need precisely those same
virtues which made him a great saint.
</p>

<p>
Let us then enter upon this month with great joy, and continue
to honor this saint, that we may love him, and become particularly
devoted to him. Let us pray especially for our eternal salvation,
in which he is greatly interested being the patron of a
happy death, and then we will be sharers, after this life, in the
same glory which he enjoys in heaven.
</p>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Considerations and Prayers for Every Day.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>First Day.</head>

<p>
After the adoration of the Lord, and the veneration
of the Blessed Virgin, next in order of
importance comes the devotion to St. Joseph.
Among all the saints of God in heaven, there is none
more powerful, none has more claim on our confidence
and love. Almighty God encourages us to
look up to St. Joseph, for to him were intrusted the
greatest treasures that the world ever saw, Jesus and
Mary. Our Lord from the first moment recognized St.
Joseph as the one who took the place of His
heavenly Father, and He obeyed him in all things.
Mary respected this saintly man as the head of the
family, as her spouse whom God had sent to her for
her protection. She, before whom the angels bowed
in respect, willingly served St. Joseph in the necessities
<pb n='101'/><anchor id='Pg101'/>
of this life. The Church of God, the custodian
of truth, revelation, and tradition, has encouraged
this devotion by many indulgences. St. Francis de
Sales said to his confessor on the eve of his death:
<q>Do you not know, venerable father, that I belong
to St. Joseph?</q> St. Teresa called him her father
and master.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Holy St. Joseph, spouse of Mary, be mindful of
me, pray for me, watch over me. Guardian
of the paradise of the new Adam, provide for my
temporal wants. Faithful guardian of the most
precious of all treasures, I beseech thee to bring this
matter to a happy end, if it be for the glory of God
and the good of my soul. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Second Day.</head>

<p>
The devotion to St. Joseph, when well understood
and faithfully practised, is undoubtedly a great
means of increasing piety. We know well that we
honor the saints most by imitating their virtues,
therefore we will endeavor to acquire these virtues
which most distinguished our saint, and the chief virtue
of St. Joseph was piety. We will learn to love Jesus
tenderly; to do all our actions with the intention of
pleasing Him, to remain faithful to the teachings of
the Church; all this is piety. The whole life of St.
Joseph was a life of poverty, humility, retirement,
recollection and prayer. When the Egyptian people
were starving, and clamoring for food, Pharao
said to them, <q>Go to Joseph,</q> who had gathered
<pb n='102'/><anchor id='Pg102'/>
the superfluous grain of seven abundant years, and
kept the keys of the granaries in his possession. So
now, also, can we say confidently, <q>Go to Joseph,</q>
who holds the keys of the graces and blessings of
God. We need never fear the poverty which may
stare us in the face, knowing that all our needs will
be supplied by him.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Holy St. Joseph, spouse of Mary, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Third Day.</head>

<p>
When Mary was chosen to be Mother of God,
the old judgment of God was re-echoed:
<q>It is not good for man to be alone.</q> God gave
her a chaste spouse. The honor of the Son of God
required that He should be born of a virgin, but He
needed a man to protect Him and His Mother. A
man worthy of this trust had to be chosen, and such
a one was found in the person of St. Joseph. He
was a man of angelic purity and he would guard the
purity of his bride. He was to be the reputed father
of Jesus before the Jews, lest Mary be stoned for having
broken her marriage vows; his purity was to be
in every way similar to that of the purest of virgins.
All those who were immediately connected with the
great work of our salvation, were to be pure and
spotless, their sanctity was to be unquestioned. It
was the will of God that the divine origin of His
adorable Son should be hid from human eyes, and
Joseph was chosen to become the cloak with which
this mystery was enshrouded. Only in the secrecy
of his family life did he manifest his adoration of the
<pb n='103'/><anchor id='Pg103'/>
<q>Word made flesh,</q> and there, as in a sanctuary,
he adored his Lord and Saviour.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Holy St. Joseph, spouse of Mary, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fourth Day.</head>

<p>
Joseph is that wise and provident servant, who was
set over his family to distribute to it the necessary
food at stated times. He is the visible physical
means which God employed for the work of the salvation
of mankind. God chooses, it is true, humble
instruments to accomplish His holy designs, but at
the same time He furnishes them with suitable graces,
that His work may be gloriously and effectively performed.
Such a servant was chosen by God in the
person of St. Joseph, who was a humble and saintly
man. To him He gave His graces, for He refuses
them to the proud. We too ought to be disinterested
and humble in the service of God, using our
natural talents to the fullest extent because they belong
to God, and have been given to us for the special
purpose of performing the duties of our vocation in
this world. Disinterestedness and humility are the
great sources from which all good proceeds.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Holy St. Joseph, spouse of Mary, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fifth Day.</head>

<p>
All the saints were filled with the spirit of the
Lord, and in consequence they esteemed the
<pb n='104'/><anchor id='Pg104'/>
virtue of humility as the foundation of perfection. St.
Bernard considered this virtue as the corner-stone of
the edifice of faith; the perfection of Christian virtues;
the tower of safety, into which the soul could
retire before the insidious attacks of Satan. And
St. Ambrose calls this virtue the first one, and the
source of all other virtues&mdash;all other virtues must be
combined with humility to give them value. To no
other virtue does God give so many graces. Just because
St. Joseph thought nothing of himself, and
lowered himself in the eyes of others, did Jesus select
him as His foster-father. This great virtue of
humility appears in all the circumstances of his life.
Though of the royal house of David, still he did not
disdain to labor at the humble trade of a carpenter.
He was perfectly resigned to the providence of God;
God's will was his will, and he never repined at the
trials God sent him.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Holy St. Joseph, spouse of Mary, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Sixth Day.</head>

<p>
Joseph consented to become the spouse of the
Blessed Virgin, because he knew he could preserve
the chastity which he had vowed to keep, and because
he could be the guardian of the virginity of
Mary. Little did he suspect that he was to become the
spouse of the Mother of God. St. Bridget had a vision,
in which the sentiments of St. Joseph were made
known to her by the Blessed Virgin herself. She
said: <q>When Joseph, who was given to me by the
Most High as my protector, knew of the mystery of
<pb n='105'/><anchor id='Pg105'/>
the incarnation, which was operated in me by the
power of the Holy Ghost, he was filled with astonishment,
and conceived not the least suspicion against
my purity. He believed firmly in the prophecies
which proclaimed that the Son of God would be born
of a Virgin, and therefore he considered himself unworthy
to serve such an exalted Mother.</q> St. Joseph
learned the virtue of humility still more profoundly
in his association with Jesus and Mary, for how
could it be otherwise when he hourly observed their
self-abnegation? Daily did he see the Mother of
God engaged in the most lowly services.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Holy Joseph, spouse of Mary, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Seventh Day.</head>

<p>
What must have been the feelings of the holy
patriarch in witnessing the humiliation of
the Son of God! What must have been his astonishment,
when the divine wisdom of the Child Jesus
asked him his counsel, obeyed him in all things, and
was for many years his fellow-laborer at his humble
trade! The Lord taught him the great lesson: to
be meek and humble of heart. Surely we may suppose
that St. Joseph was in a constant ecstasy of
adoration as he contemplated the Son of God, lowered
to the condition of a helpless child, and afterwards
by natural growth becoming a man and
laboring at such humble employment. How could
he have within himself one spark of pride or vanity in
the knowledge that he was a descendant of King
David? Therefore he humbled himself all the
<pb n='106'/><anchor id='Pg106'/>
more, and only considered himself great in the
thought that he was allowed to imitate the humiliation
of the Son of God. Let us learn from St. Joseph
the value of this virtue, and practise it all our
lives. Let us often enter the Sacred Heart of Jesus
to learn from Him meekness and humility.
</p>

<p>
Prayer For Humility.
</p>

<p>
Glorious patron, St. Joseph, let me understand
the deep feeling with which thou didst witness
the humble lives of Jesus and Mary. How far am I
from being able to say that I have acquired this
virtue! Thou seekest only to hide from the gaze of
the world the divine gifts with which thou art enriched,
whilst I seek to draw the attention of the
world on myself, to shine before the world, and to be
much thought of. O my loving protector, my patron,
my father, obtain for me the virtue of humility, which
is the foundation of all perfection. Obtain for me the
great grace to know myself, to despise myself, to look
for humiliations from others, to feel inferior to all,
that in the future I may desire no other witness of
my actions but God, and no other reward but God.
Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Eighth Day.</head>

<p>
When God had created Adam, and made him
strong and intelligent, He found that one
great thing was wanting. Adam needed a companion;
he could not content himself in all the superabundance
that was around him. Then God took
a rib out of the first man, and built a woman upon
it. The same thing seems true in the case of the
<pb n='107'/><anchor id='Pg107'/>
Blessed Virgin. She was all alone in the spiritual
order among men. She was endowed with many
graces, yet in all her abundance she would be desolate,
only God said, let us make her a companion
like unto herself, one who would also be the favorite
creature of God, and would be the recipient of
many extraordinary graces. He therefore chose a
great saint, and gave him special gifts. A prince of
this world does the same thing when he desires to make
a lowly subject his companion; he first makes him a
noble, then enriches him with much wealth in order
that the favorite may make a good appearance before
the world. God united in St. Joseph all the virtues
and graces of the other saints, that he might be
greater than they. From all eternity it had been
ordained that St. Joseph was to be the foster-father
of Jesus.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Holy St. Joseph, spouse of Mary, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ninth Day.</head>

<p>
Great must have been the terror of Mary when the
angel of God appeared to her, and announced
that she was to be the Mother of God. She was
troubled, but the angel encouraged her, saying,
<q>Fear not, Mary.</q> The angel announced the incarnation
to St. Joseph, and he was greatly troubled;
the angel assured him, <q>Fear not, Joseph, Son of
David.</q> Mary gave life to the Lord and brought
Him up. Joseph, on his part, labored day and
night to scrape together what was necessary for their
existence. Both Mary and Joseph were equally, according
<pb n='108'/><anchor id='Pg108'/>
to their position, contributing to the rearing
of Jesus. Like Mary, the Mother of Jesus, St.
Joseph is powerful with her divine Son. St. Joseph
is called, by the Holy Ghost, a just man. He was
the first to be exposed to the persecutions of the
Jews for the Lord. In all things then, is Joseph like
unto Mary; similar also are his virtues, and like also
his eternal reward.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Holy St. Joseph, spouse of Mary, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Tenth Day.</head>

<p>
We may trace other phases of similarity between
the Blessed Virgin and St. Joseph. Mary
is the Queen of angels, high above them, because
she is the Mother of the Creator; she is then all-powerful,
and she can use these heavenly spirits for
the glory of God. St. Joseph is not inferior to the
angels in purity; his mind was always careful to
guard against any pollution; he was a guardian angel
to Jesus, Our Lord. This office made him a great
being in the sight of Jesus Himself, for He acknowledged
His guardian angel and was on the most
intimate terms with him. St. Joseph served Our
Lord as a throne. The choir of thrones are the
angels on whom God is carried about in majesty, and
Jesus was carried about in the arms of St. Joseph.
The seraphims, in a certain degree, were inferior to
St. Joseph. The angels have no paternity, but St.
Joseph is called the father of Jesus. The angels
could then bow down before St. Joseph, and acknowledge
and call him their superior, because he
had received a commission which no angel had ever
<pb n='109'/><anchor id='Pg109'/>
yet received, and because he had a name which had
never been given to any of these holy choirs.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Holy St. Joseph, spouse of Mary, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Eleventh Day.</head>

<p>
It was the privilege of the father to give a name
to the child, and this privilege St. Joseph exercised
at the circumcision of the Lord. It was he
too who usually performed the painful operation of
the circumcision. Thus it was that St. Joseph shed
the first drops of the adorable blood which was to
redeem mankind. The name of Jesus had been predestined
for the Saviour, and given by God Himself;
but Joseph, the father on earth, was commissioned
to declare it publicly. O great saint! you
cannot give to this divine Child a greater dignity
than He possesses, for He is your Creator and Lord;
but you do the next greatest thing, you give him a
name which publishes Him to the world in His
character of Redeemer&mdash;this great honor is reserved
for you. Holy name of Jesus, the greatest of all
names, before the mention of which all heaven and
earth shall bow their knees in adoration, be to me a
source of heavenly joy, and a consolation in all the
trials of life.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Holy St. Joseph, spouse of Mary, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twelfth Day.</head>

<p>
Joseph, no doubt, understood all the importance
and meaning of the name of Jesus. He therefore
<pb n='110'/><anchor id='Pg110'/>
knew all the obligations which this holy name
imposed on the divine Child, as well as the obligations
which it imposed on himself. He understood
that Jesus must be the man of sorrows and derision,
and that he must share His destiny. St. Joseph always
had the image of the crucified Lord before his eyes.
If the faith of the great Apostle of the world was
such that he carried the image of the crucified
Redeemer always before his eyes, much the more can
this be said of our saint, for he had Jesus always
with him. When he embraced His sacred head, he
had before him that head crowned with thorns, and
bowed on His breast in His last agony; he could see
that little body covered with wounds from the
scourging. God treated St. Joseph as His most
intimate friend, and filled him with His share of
sorrow. Do we wish to enter into the glory of the
Lord, then we, too, must suffer patiently. The closer
we follow the Lord, the more intimate we are with
Him, the more we will look for sufferings, and love
them because they make us resemble the Lord more
closely.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Holy St. Joseph, spouse of Mary, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirteenth Day.</head>

<p>
St. Joseph was a man of faith. We read in
St. Paul, <q>the just man lives by faith.</q> It is
the foundation of sanctity, it is the fountain of our
spiritual life. All the works of St. Joseph were done
in a spirit of faith. Were it not for this spirit of
faith, he would never have consented to become the
spouse of the Blessed Virgin, for he desired to preserve
<pb n='111'/><anchor id='Pg111'/>
his own chastity; and the spirit of faith taught
him how he might do this. When he had entered
upon his duties as spouse, he noticed that the Virgin
was with child, and he fell into deep sorrow and concern,
until an angel appeared, dispelling all his doubts:
<q>Joseph, son of David, fear not to take unto thee
Mary, thy wife: for that which is conceived in her, is
of the Holy Ghost; and she shall bring forth a Son:
and thou shalt call His name Jesus: for He will save
His people from their sins.</q>&mdash;Matt. i. 20, 21. The
spirit of faith made him believe in these words,
whether he understood them or not. He subjected
his will to the manner in which God wished to redeem
mankind, and he was forever afterwards without
solicitude.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Holy St. Joseph, spouse of Mary, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fourteenth Day.</head>

<p>
Then came a new trial to the faith of St. Joseph.
In due course of time the Lord was born, a
little helpless Child, in the humble stable at Bethlehem:
where He was wrapped in swaddling-clothes,
and laid on a little straw in a manger. Joseph
became the first adorer, after the Blessed Virgin.
But it required great faith to recognize in this weak
Infant the Son of the most high God; still the grace
of God sustained him, and he humbly adored. The
angel had promised a wonderful Child. He was to
be a powerful being, Who would conquer the demons
of hell, and free the people of Israel. Now
Joseph beholds a small, weak Infant, beginning life in
<pb n='112'/><anchor id='Pg112'/>
poverty and distress. Far from being a powerful
creature He even needs the help of Mary and Joseph.
St. Joseph carried the Child in his arms, and yet at
the same time acknowledged that the same Child in
heaven was carried about on the shoulders of the
holiest angels, and governed the universe with His
will. He heard the wailings of the Child, but knew
that He was the joy of paradise. He taught Him the
praises of His heavenly Father, knowing at the same
time that He was eternal wisdom.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Holy St. Joseph, spouse of Mary, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fifteenth Day.</head>

<p>
Joseph is eminently the just man who lives by faith.
No sooner is the Child Jesus born, than, as if
an unforeseen accident had happened, which made it
necessary to fly, as if there were no God to protect
that Babe, an angel appeared to Joseph in his sleep,
and bids him arise, and take the Child and His Mother,
and fly into the land of Egypt. The enemies of the
Child will be on your heels, and all depends on your
rapid flight, to save Him from their hands. <q>Fly
into Egypt,</q> a far-off foreign country. He gets
up, and hastily gathering the few necessary articles,
makes off in the dead of night, so that the people of
Bethlehem may not know where he has gone. But
Joseph performs his duty in a spirit of faith: he does
not doubt the omnipotence of God. He feels that
such is the command of God, and he makes no objections,
but goes with alacrity into the poverty and
suffering which he knows are inevitable.
</p>

<pb n='113'/><anchor id='Pg113'/>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Holy St. Joseph, spouse of Mary, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Sixteenth Day.</head>

<p>
Joseph remained in Egypt until the time of Herod's
death. The angel again appears to him, and
bids him return to Judea, as if the divine Infant were
not sure of His life until His enemies had disappeared.
What frailty, what meekness in this little
Child! Can this be a God? Without the least
hesitation, Joseph treats the Child with the same
reverence, and adores Him, as if he had seen Him
working miracles. Never was such a faith found in
Israel. Nowadays we could not find such a faith.
<q>From a want of this noble faith,</q> St. Teresa says,
<q>the world is full of sin.</q> Ask St. Joseph to obtain
for us a faith similar to his. Faith is a gift and a virtue.
By this gift our intellect is enlightened, we know
God, and confide in Him. By the virtue of faith we
use this light, and let it shine on all our actions.
Let us not be satisfied to bow down our intellect
under the influence of the great grace of the gift of
faith; we should regulate all the actions of our life
according to the dictates and laws of this faith, and
live according to it. St. Joseph can obtain such
graces for us, if we pray to him.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Holy St. Joseph, spouse of Mary, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Seventeenth Day.</head>

<p>
St. Joseph possesses another great virtue: it is his
obedience. From his childhood he observed
<pb n='114'/><anchor id='Pg114'/>
with conscientious exactitude all the laws of God.
Without a murmur he accompanied Mary to Bethlehem
in a severe time of the year, and with Mary so
soon to give birth to the Child Jesus, to fulfil the
command of a heathen prince. When the command
was given to take up the Child and flee into Egypt,
he was ready. But one word is necessary: he does
not consider any plans for flight, but executes the
command without a moment's delay. In many cases
he could have alleged causes of inconvenience, or of
his not understanding how it could be accomplished;
he might have asked the angel for an explanation,
saying, how comes it that a few days ago you announced
that this Jesus is to be the Redeemer of His
people, and now He is to fly before His enemies?
He will not be able to free His people afterwards,
when now He cannot hold His ground. But he subjected
his reason to his faith, and obeyed.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Holy St. Joseph, spouse of Mary, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Eighteenth Day.</head>

<p>
Through our faith God leads us to the knowledge
of His goodness and His promises, that so the desire
and hope of enjoying God may be born in us. St.
Joseph's faith and knowledge of God effected in him
a great confidence; he had been peculiarly confirmed
in hope. It is a fact that our confidence in God
grows with grace when our hope is strengthened by
the infinite merits of Jesus Christ, and when we have
great devotion and love for the Blessed Virgin; so
we must certainly conclude that Joseph's love of Jesus,
<pb n='115'/><anchor id='Pg115'/>
Whom he daily carried in his arms, should lay a
greater foundation of hope than that of any of the
saints. The flight into Egypt is an example of it.
His confidence in the providence of God is so implicit
that he makes no preparation. There is Jesus, the
Son of God, Who is to go with Him; there is Mary,
the Virgin Mother of God, who is to be of the party.
These are the two strongest pillars of our hope, and
why not to the hope of St. Joseph? God the Father
will provide. Is He not the God Who, with a strong
arm, led the Israelites out of Egypt, and, after forty
years of wandering, introduced them according to
promise into the land flowing with milk and honey?
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Holy St. Joseph, spouse of Mary, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Nineteenth Day.</head>

<p>
In Joseph's flight into Egypt, he knew that Jesus
was a more powerful protector of a perilous journey
than the Ark of the Covenant which was carried
before the tribes of Israel, or the column of smoke that
led them during the day and the pillar of fire that
protected them at night. He would be the manna,
the inexhaustible food, in a desert and strange land.
Accompanied by this treasure, St. Joseph is content
to suffer for Jesus, and under the eyes of Jesus. We
can imagine the sympathy of Joseph for his charge,
when he relieved the Blessed Virgin of her burden,
and had Him to rest on his bosom. Good and faithful
Christian, in all the trials of life keep Jesus close
to your heart, and when the world storms and frets,
be faithful to your promises made in Baptism, and
<pb n='116'/><anchor id='Pg116'/>
often repeated during your Christian life by receiving
the sacraments.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Holy St. Joseph, spouse of Mary, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twentieth Day.</head>

<p>
The providence of God knows what our destiny
is, and what is the best for us. Then let us be
resigned to His will. All our anxieties would disappear
if we were thoroughly convinced of the goodness
of God in our behalf; but because we want to
do everything without God, not only do we feel anxiety
for the future, but disaster will really overtake us.
Let us trust in Providence and give Him entire control
of all that concerns us. In all our necessities
let us pray and wait, until it is God's pleasure to
step in, and do away with our troubles, if it be to
His greater glory; or if not, then let us patiently bear
them. We know that Providence so watches over us,
that not a hair falls from our head without His approval.
God has His reasons for all that He does,
and for all the evil that He permits, though we may
not be able to see them. In this way the Christian
soul sleeps softly and peacefully in the arms of God,
as a child in the arms of its mother. As David, the
prophet king, sang in his psalms: <q>I will sleep and
rest in peace because Thou, O Lord, hast founded
my hope on Thy providence. Thy mercy shall accompany
me all the days of my life.</q>
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Holy St. Joseph, spouse of Mary, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='117'/><anchor id='Pg117'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-first Day.</head>

<p>
Joseph lived in Egypt for eight years, among a pagan
people, without repining, without being distressed
at the prolonged stay, an exile from his own country
and relatives. There, far from the sacred Temple
of God, he remained in seclusion, serving God in his
soul. Who can tell the suffering he underwent
among the barbarians, amid their shocking practises
of religion, which were abhorrent to him who was so
closely united to God? Good people are in the
same condition in the wickedness of the world: it is
a cross to them. But crosses are to be met with
everywhere; you cannot escape. If you get rid of
one cross, another is waiting for you, and perhaps a
far heavier one; but your consolation should be the
knowledge that Jesus, Mary, and Joseph endured the
same sufferings. Joseph lived in the Holy Family
with the greatest recollection. This should also be
the case with those who live in the world, that fiery
oven of the trials of God; they should sing the
praises of God in the very midst of distractions, and
be perfectly recollected, serving God without being
led away from the path of duty.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Holy St. Joseph, spouse of Mary, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-second Day.</head>

<p>
So greatly did Jesus love poverty, that, not finding
it in heaven, He came upon the earth to practise
it. All those principally associated with Our
<pb n='118'/><anchor id='Pg118'/>
Lord in the salvation of mankind were obliged to
endure poverty. Since the Lord loved poverty so
much, St. Joseph, too, had to practise this virtue.
Even before St. Joseph was selected to become the
foster-father of Our Lord, he was poor according to
the will of God, but afterwards he learned the virtue
still more from the example of Our Lord. If one
single sentence that he had heard from the Gospel,
induced St. Antony, abbot and patriarch of monks,
to give all his wealth to the poor, how much more
did the example of Our Lord act effectively on Joseph,
so that he renounced all expectation of worldly advancement.
Often in their communing with each
other, the question of their destitution must have
been the topic; but it was not to find ways and means
to avoid it; on the contrary that they should be
patient in the trial. Joseph possessed nothing;
hence he witnessed the Lord in His poverty laid in a
manger after His birth. At the presentation he could
make no other offering but that of very poor people,
a pair of pigeons which could be bought for very
little money. He also had to undergo many hardships
on his journey to Egypt.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Holy St. Joseph, spouse of Mary, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-third Day.</head>

<p>
In Egypt, so tradition has it, Joseph had to labor
for others in order to bring in the means of a
livelihood for himself and the Holy Family. Even
then their income was by no means superfluous,
and according to St. Liguori they often had to suffer
<pb n='119'/><anchor id='Pg119'/>
actual want. In this manner Joseph spent eight
years in Egypt. When he was recalled by the voice
of the angel, he settled in Nazareth; though his circumstances
there were probably better, they were by
no means luxurious. Bossuet says: <q>Imagine a poor
laborer, who had no other fortune than the labor of
his willing hands, no other means of subsistence but
his work. Every day he saw the end of his provision,
and he had to begin again on the following
day, like our poor working people. Still he was
rich in contentment; he had enough, because he had
nothing which might be coveted by others; he possessed
all because he stood in need of everything;
he was happy, quiet, secure, although he had no
place whereon to rest his head. He was continually
constrained to labor with the sweat of his brow. He
divided all his income with Jesus and Mary. Was it
not a consolation for him to do this? even according
to our weak reason, guided by religion.</q>
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Holy St. Joseph, spouse of Mary, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-fourth Day.</head>

<p>
When we have contemplated the willing poverty
of Joseph, the thought naturally comes to us
to imitate him in the practise of this virtue. Poverty
makes us like to the Lord. Our Lord walks before
us with giant strides in the practise of this virtue.
The rich, burdened with the goods of this
world, can hardly follow Him. Let us consider
that, after all, our happiness is not to be found in the
possession of wealth. He is happy, according to St.
<pb n='120'/><anchor id='Pg120'/>
Augustine, who possesses what he wants, and who
wants nothing beyond what God has sent him. The
rich are frequently unhappy, because they are carried
along to desire the things which they cannot reach.
Not only is poverty a source of virtue and of peace;
but also it is a means by which we can make progress
in our perfection. For as avarice is the source of all
evils, so also poverty is the power by which all our
vices are corrected, and held in check. This virtue
watches over humility: a virtue so very necessary to
our perfection, and it preserves chastity by reason of
the mortification of our senses.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Holy St. Joseph, spouse of Mary, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-fifth Day.</head>

<p>
The interior life of the Holy Family in Nazareth
must have been a most beautiful one. They
were joined so closely to God, that there was no
earthly distraction which could separate them from
contemplating and communing with Him. They
formed a kind of trinity on earth, a representation of
the Trinity in heaven. These three were one, because
they were united by the bond of union, Jesus
Christ. The people of Nazareth did not know the
adorable person of the Lord, nor the dignity of the
Mother of God. They knew Joseph by sight, for he
had often gone out to look for work, and necessarily
came more in contact with his neighbors. That holy
house of Nazareth was a perfect paradise, full of peace,
of order, recollection, unity, and happiness. Their
conversation was about God and the best means to
<pb n='121'/><anchor id='Pg121'/>
comply with His holy will. Joseph and Mary adored
the Lord because He was God; but they exacted His
obedience because He was their Son.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Holy St. Joseph, spouse of Mary, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-sixth Day.</head>

<p>
Let us think to-day, of the social life between
Joseph and Mary. St. Joseph was a very
great saint, and Mary was unstained by sin: so pure,
so holy, that no created being could be compared to
her. What can we suppose was the conversation of
these heavenly beings? When Mary visited her
cousin, St. Elizabeth, John, in his mother's womb,
leaped for joy. In other words, the presence of the
God-man in the womb of the Blessed Virgin scattered
graces about her with god-like profusion, and certainly
St. Joseph, too, was affected by it. With as
lively a faith as we have before the tabernacle on the
altar, St. Joseph must have recognized the presence
of the Lord, for he was acquainted with the mystery
of the incarnation, as it had been revealed by the
mouth of the angel. We are silent, and sunk in deep
devotion in church, where God dwells. Was St. Joseph
less impressed than we, when he recognized
Him Who was the Son of God, and Who was to redeem
His people Israel from their sins? How great
was their devotion to the hidden Lord, how fervent
their prayers! Still St. Joseph was the master in
that house; he was the head of the family, and was
obeyed in all his instructions.
</p>

<pb n='122'/><anchor id='Pg122'/>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Holy St. Joseph, spouse of Mary, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-seventh Day.</head>

<p>
Joseph was obedient to the Law of Moses; scrupulously
exact in following the instructions of the
Jewish ceremonial, as all good Jews were. Poor as
he was, and notwithstanding the loss of time it necessarily
entailed, he still went every year, as was the
custom, to Jerusalem to celebrate the feast of the
Passover. He did this because it was a law of Moses.
The Blessed Virgin and the Child Jesus were equally
anxious to fulfil the law. And when the feast was
over, all went back to Nazareth, but Jesus remained
behind, and hid Himself from Joseph for three days,
making him feel wretched, because he thought that
he had been delinquent in his trust of the divine
Jesus. But Jesus wants to be looked for, not with an
ordinary desire, but with a real love, and the longer
we are separated from Him the more loving should
we become, because our heart is desolate without His
holy presence. O my God, I have sought Thee all
my life! but I have not found Thee because I do
not look for Thee where Thou art to be found. Indeed
Thou art in my heart, but I go out and look
for Thee in distractions where Thou shalt not be
found.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Holy St. Joseph, spouse of Mary, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='123'/><anchor id='Pg123'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-eighth Day.</head>

<p>
St. Joseph, as we have seen, earned his livelihood
by the sweat of his brow. When Jesus grew
up and was stronger, He helped His father, and
tradition tells us that the Blessed Virgin was not
idle. She sewed and embroidered in order that they
might live. The lot of the laborer is always hard,
and St. Joseph's life, beyond the consolations of
religion, was no exception. Day after day work was
necessary, and pleasures and recreations few. That
Joseph was of the royal house of David was forgotten
because he was poor; had he been rich people would
have honored him, would have given him political
prominence. Let us also sanctify our labors; Joseph's
work made him holy, because it was honest
work, done with a good intention and in the spirit
of prayer. Prayer and work were the constant employment
of St. Joseph; this is the way that God
wishes us to spend our time. He wishes us to pursue
an active, laborious life, while we keep our eyes on
Him.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Holy St. Joseph, spouse of Mary, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-ninth Day.</head>

<p>
The whole life of St. Joseph is a perfect model of
a Christian life, a life which we must necessarily
lead in order to go to heaven; a life of piety and
faithful fulfilment of the duties of our station, and the
performance of our daily actions in the best manner.
In this way St. Joseph reached heaven, and we cannot
<pb n='124'/><anchor id='Pg124'/>
choose another road. Joseph did nothing extraordinary
in a worldly sense; he was no king, with
great command of men; he was not a literary man;
but he was great, because he made himself, with the
grace of God, a great saint. He lived a simple life
as far as possible, he strove to perfect himself more
and more in the presence of Jesus, his daily companion,
and consequently he was always impressed
with the omnipresence of God, before Whom he
walked in the simplicity of his heart all the days of
his life. He is the best model of obedience to Jesus
and Mary. In his life we can find a great example
of all Christian virtues.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Holy St. Joseph, spouse of Mary, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirtieth Day.</head>

<p>
As the life of St. Joseph was such a perfect one,
the seal of approval from almighty God was
placed upon it by the grace of a happy death. For
thirty years St. Joseph was the head of the Holy
Family, and now Jesus was to go forth on His public
mission. By the disposition of divine Providence,
when his course had been completed and the purpose
of his life was over, he was called away to another
world to be rewarded for his holy life. What death
was ever more precious in the sight of God, than that
of St. Joseph! St. Paul exclaimed that the grace of
God was not ineffectual in him, and it gave him
great joy. But much more did Joseph co-operate
with the graces received, so that he was sure that
every moment of his life was spent for the greater
<pb n='125'/><anchor id='Pg125'/>
glory of God. Holy Scripture describes the death
of the just as a peaceful falling asleep in the Lord.
Precious in the sight of God is the death of His
holy ones. They can exclaim, <q>I know that my
Redeemer liveth and mine eyes shall behold Him
on the Last Day.</q> St. Joseph died in peace and
happiness in the embrace of Jesus and Mary; his
soul was sent forth to the abode of the patriarchs at
the bidding of Jesus, Who had created him. What
words can describe the consolations that filled this
noble breast, and with what confidence he looked up
to his Redeemer! And so St. Joseph has become
the patron of a happy death.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Holy St. Joseph, spouse of Mary, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirty-first Day.</head>

<p>
On this last day of the month, let us consider the
power of St. Joseph for our good in heaven, so
that we may draw from it confidence in his willingness
to use it for our spiritual and temporal welfare. The
general principle is, the greater the saint the greater
friend he is of almighty God; and the greater is the
power given him by God for the benefit of those who
live in this vale of tears. We may with reason assert
that after the Blessed Virgin, St. Joseph is the
greatest saint in heaven. He has been distinguished
by God with the greatest privileges on earth, which
certainly did not cease in heaven but rather increased.
The heavenly Father loved him, because
he represented the paternity of His divine Son on
earth. God the Son loved him because he was the
<pb n='126'/><anchor id='Pg126'/>
protector of His infancy and youth, and the faithful
guardian and spouse of the Blessed Virgin. The
Holy Ghost loved him, because he complied so faithfully
to His inspirations. In this predilection for
him by the Holy Trinity, lies the secret of his great
power. Who will say, if he asks for anything from
God, that his prayer will be rejected? Let us turn
with confidence to the patronage of St. Joseph, and
entreat him to pray for us in all our necessities.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Holy St. Joseph, spouse of Mary, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Efficacious Prayers.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirty Days' Prayer To St. Joseph.</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>To Obtain a Happy Death and Other Good Intentions.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Ever-blessed and glorious Joseph, kind and indulgent
father, and compassionate friend of all
in sorrow, through that bitter grief with which thy
heart was saturated, when thou didst behold the sufferings
of the Infant Saviour, and in thy prophetic
view didst contemplate His most ignominious Passion
and death, take pity, I beseech thee, on my poverty
and necessities, counsel me in my doubts, and console
me in all my anxieties. Thou art the good
father and protector of orphans, the advocate of the
defenceless, the patron of those who are in need and
desolation. Do not, then, disregard the petition of
thy poor child; my sins have drawn down upon me
the just displeasure of my God, and hence I am surrounded
with sorrows. To thee, O amiable guardian
of the poor neglected family of Nazareth, do I fly
for shelter and protection. Listen, then, I entreat
<pb n='127'/><anchor id='Pg127'/>
of thee, with a father's solicitude, to the earnest
prayer of thy poor supplicant, and obtain for me the
objects of my petition. I ask it by the infinite mercy
of the eternal Son of God, which induced Him to
assume our nature and be born into this world of sorrow.
I ask it by the grief which filled thy heart
when, ignorant of the mystery wrought in thy immaculate
spouse, thou didst fear thou shouldst be
separated from her. I ask it by that weariness, solicitude,
and suffering which thou didst endure when
thou soughtest in vain at the inns of Bethlehem a
shelter for the sacred Virgin and a birthplace for the
Infant God, and when, being everywhere refused,
thou wert obliged to consent that the Queen of
heaven should give birth to the world's Redeemer in
a wretched stable. I ask it by that most sad and
painful duty imposed on thee when, the divine Child
being eight days old, thou wert obliged to inflict a
deep wound on His tender body, and thus be the
first to make flow that sacred blood which was to
wash away the sins of the world. I ask it by the
sweetness and power of that sacred name, Jesus,
which thou didst confer on the adorable Infant. I
ask it by that mortal anguish inflicted on thee by the
prophecy of holy Simeon, which declared the Child
Jesus and His holy Mother the future victims of
their love and our sins. I ask it through that sorrow
and anguish which filled thy soul when the angel
declared to thee that the life of the Child Jesus was
sought by His enemies, from whose impious designs
thou wert obliged to fly with Him and His blessed
Mother into Egypt. I ask it by all the pains, fatigues,
and toils of that long and perilous pilgrimage. I
ask it by all the sorrows thou didst endure when in
<pb n='128'/><anchor id='Pg128'/>
Egypt thou wert not able, even by the sweat of thy
brow, to procure poor food and clothing for thy most
poor family. I ask it by all the grief thou didst feel
each time the divine Child asked for a morsel of
bread, and thou hadst it not to give Him. I ask it
by all thy solicitude to preserve the sacred Child and
the immaculate Mary during thy second journey,
when thou wert ordered to return to thy native country.
I ask it by thy peaceful dwelling in Nazareth,
in which so many joys and sorrows were mingled.
I ask it by thy extreme affliction in being deprived
three days of the company of the adorable Child.
I ask it by thy joy at finding Him in the Temple,
and by the ineffable consolation imparted to thee in
the cottage of Nazareth with the company and society
of the little Jesus. I ask it by that wonderful
condescension by which He subjected Himself to thy
will. I ask it through that dolorous view, continually
in thy mind, of all thy Jesus was to suffer. I
ask it by that painful contemplation, which made
thee foresee the divine little hands and feet, now so
active in serving thee, one day to be pierced with
cruel nails; that head which rested gently on thy
bosom, crowned with sharp thorns; that delicate
body which thou didst tenderly fold in thy mantle
and press to thy heart, stripped and extended on a
cross. I ask it by that heroic sacrifice of thy will
and best affection by which thou didst offer up to the
eternal Father the last awful moment when the Man-God
was to expire for our salvation. I ask it by that
perfect love and conformity with which thou didst
receive the divine order to depart from this life, and
from the company of Jesus and Mary. I ask it by
that exceeding great joy which filled thy soul when
<pb n='129'/><anchor id='Pg129'/>
the Redeemer of the world, triumphant over death
and hell, entered into the possession of His kingdom,
and conducted thee also into it with especial honors.
I ask it through Mary's glorious assumption, and
through that interminable bliss, which with her, thou
wilt eternally derive from the presence of God. O
good father! I beseech thee by all thy sufferings, sorrows,
and joys, to hear me and to obtain the grant
of my earnest petitions. (<hi rend='italic'>Here name them or reflect
on them.</hi>) Obtain for all those who have asked thy
prayers all that is useful to them in the designs of
God; and finally, my dear protector, be thou with
me and all who are dear to me in our last moments,
that we may eternally chant the praises of Jesus,
Mary, and Joseph. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Choice Of St. Joseph As A Patron.</head>

<p>
O blessed Joseph, faithful guardian of my Redeemer,
Jesus Christ, protector of thy chaste
spouse, the Virgin Mother of God, I choose thee this
day to be my special patron and advocate, and I
firmly resolve to honor thee from this time forth.
Therefore I humbly beseech thee to receive me as
thy client, to instruct me in every doubt, to comfort
me in every affliction, to obtain for me and for all
the knowledge and love of the Heart of Jesus, and
finally to defend and protect me at the hour of
death. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Virginum Custos.</head>

<p>
Guardian of Virgins, and father, holy Joseph, to
whose faithful care Christ Jesus, Innocence itself,
and Mary, Virgin of virgins, were committed, I
<pb n='130'/><anchor id='Pg130'/>
pray and beg of thee, by these dear pledges, Jesus
and Mary, free me from all uncleanness, and make
me with spotless mind, pure heart, and chaste body,
ever most chastely to serve Jesus and Mary all the
days of my life. Amen.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
An indulgence of one hundred days, once a day.
</p>

</quote>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Sorrows and Joys of St. Joseph.</head>

<p>
1. O glorious St. Joseph, most pure spouse of thy
most holy Mary, even as the trouble and
anguish of thy heart was great in the perplexity of
abandoning thy most chaste and stainless spouse, so,
too, inexplicable was thy delight when by the angel
was revealed to thee the sovereign mystery of the incarnation.
</p>

<p>
Through this sorrow and this joy of thine, we pray
thee, now and in our last agony, to comfort our soul
with the joy of a good life, and of a holy death, like
unto thine between Jesus and Mary.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, Hail Mary, and Glory be to the
Father.
</p>

<p>
2. O glorious St. Joseph, most blessed patriarch,
who wast selected for the office of reputed father of
the Word made man, the grief which thou didst feel
at seeing the Child Jesus born in such great poverty
was suddenly changed for thee into heavenly exultation
at hearing the angelic harmony, and seeing the
glories of that most resplendent night.
</p>

<p>
Through this sorrow and this joy of thine, we beseech
thee to obtain for us that, after the journey of
this life is over, we may pass hence to hear the angelic
praises, and to enjoy the splendors of the glory
of heaven.
</p>

<pb n='131'/><anchor id='Pg131'/>

<p>
Our Father, Hail Mary, and Glory be to the
Father.
</p>

<p>
3. O glorious St. Joseph, who didst fulfil most
obediently all God's commands, the most precious
blood which the Child Redeemer shed in the circumcision
struck death into thy heart, but the name of
Jesus revived it, and filled it full of joy.
</p>

<p>
Through this sorrow and this joy of thine, obtain
for us that, all vices having been taken from us during
life, we may expire in exultation with the most
holy name of Jesus in our hearts and upon our lips.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, Hail Mary, and Glory be to the
Father.
</p>

<p>
4. O most glorious St. Joseph, most faithful saint,
who wast a partaker in the mysteries of our redemption,
if Simeon's prophecy of that which Jesus and
Mary were to suffer caused thee a mortal pang, it
filled thee also with a blessed joy at the salvation and
glorious resurrection of innumerable souls, which he
at the same time foretold would thence proceed.
</p>

<p>
Through this sorrow and this joy of thine, obtain
for us that we may be of the number of those who,
through the merits of Jesus, and at the intercession
of the Virgin Mother, are to rise again in glory.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, Hail Mary, and Glory be to the
Father.
</p>

<p>
5. O glorious St. Joseph, most watchful guardian
and familiar attendant of the incarnate Son of God,
how much didst thou suffer in supporting and in serving
the Son of the Most High, particularly in the
flight which thou hadst to make into Egypt; but how
much again didst thou rejoice at having always with
thee that same God, and at seeing the idols of Egypt
fall to the ground.
</p>

<pb n='132'/><anchor id='Pg132'/>

<p>
Through this sorrow and this joy of thine, obtain
for us that, by keeping far from us hell's tyrant, especially
by flying from dangerous occasions, every
idol of earthly affection may fall from our hearts; and
that, wholly occupied in the service of Jesus and of
Mary, we may live for them alone, and die a happy
death.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, Hail Mary, and Glory be to the
Father.
</p>

<p>
6. O glorious St. Joseph, angel of the earth, who
didst marvel at beholding the King of heaven subject
to thy commands, if thy consolation at bringing him
back from Egypt was disturbed by the fear of Archelaus,
yet, assured by the angel, thou didst with Jesus
and Mary dwell in joy at Nazareth.
</p>

<p>
Through this sorrow and this joy of thine, obtain
for us that our heart, unclouded by hurtful fears, may
enjoy peace of conscience, and that we may live secure
with Jesus and Mary, and with them may also
die.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, Hail Mary, and Glory be to the
Father.
</p>

<p>
7. O glorious St. Joseph, model of all holiness,
when, without fault of thine, thou hadst lost the
Child Jesus, thou didst seek Him for three days in
the greatest sorrow, until with joyful heart thou didst
possess again thy life, finding Him in the Temple,
among the doctors.
</p>

<p>
Through this sorrow and this joy of thine, with fervent
sighs we supplicate thee to interpose in our behalf,
that so it may never befall us to lose Jesus by
mortal sin; but that, if unhappily we ever lose Him,
we may seek Him again with unwearied sorrow, until
once more we find His favor, especially at the moment
<pb n='133'/><anchor id='Pg133'/>
of our death, that so we may pass to the enjoyment of
Him in heaven, and there, with thee, sing His divine
mercies for all eternity.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, Hail Mary, and Glory be to the Father.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Ant.</hi> Jesus Himself was beginning about His
thirtieth year, being (as it was supposed) the son of
Joseph.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Pray for us, O holy Joseph.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> That we may be made worthy of the promises
of Christ.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Let Us Pray.</hi>
</p>

<p>
O God, Who by Thy ineffable providence didst
vouchsafe to choose the blessed Joseph for the
spouse of Thy most holy Mother; grant, we beseech
thee, that he whom we venerate as our protector on
earth may be our intercessor in heaven; Who livest
and reignest forever and ever. Amen.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
Indulgences: One hundred days each time, three hundred
days on Wednesdays, three hundred days on each day of the two
novenas before St. Joseph's feast and his patronage; plenary on
those two feasts; plenary once a month for daily recital; three
hundred days for each Sunday when recited seven Sundays
running. Applicable to the dead.
</p>

</quote>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Responsory To St. Joseph.</head>

<quote rend='display'>

<lg>
<l>Ye that would live and die secure,</l>
<l>In merit strong, of mercy sure,</l>
<l>Choose Joseph for your heavenly friend</l>
<l>To guide your steps and bless your end.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>He was sweet Mary's consort dear,</l>
<l>And Jesus' sire, when exiled here;</l>
<l>Just, true, of purity untold,</l>
<l>Say, shall he ask and God withhold?</l>
</lg>

<pb n='134'/><anchor id='Pg134'/>

<lg>
<l>He worshipp'd at the manger-bed,</l>
<l>And then the exile comforted;</l>
<l>And sought his Son, and joyous found,</l>
<l>While on His Father's business bound.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>He through sweet toil and patient pains</l>
<l>The world's Artificer sustains;</l>
<l>And Whom th' angelic legions praise</l>
<l>Obedience to His creature pays.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>And now he waxes old, and dies;</l>
<l>But first beholds with loving eyes,</l>
<l>Jesus and Mary, gracious sight&mdash;</l>
<l>Then sleeps entranced in deep delight.</l>
</lg>

</quote>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Ant.</hi> Behold the faithful and prudent servant
whom the Lord set over His house.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Pray for us, holy Joseph.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> That we may be made worthy of the promises
of Christ.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Litany of St. Joseph.</head>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>For Private Devotion Only.</hi>)
</p>

<lg>
<l>Lord, have mercy on us.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Christ have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Lord, have mercy on us.</l>
<l>Jesus hear us.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Jesus, graciously hear us.</hi></l>
<l>God the Father of heaven, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us</hi>.</l>
<l>God the Son, Redeemer of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us</hi>.</l>
<l>God the Holy Ghost, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us</hi>.</l>
<l>Holy Trinity, one God, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us</hi>.</l>
<l>Holy Mary, spouse of St. Joseph, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>St. Joseph, confirmed in grace, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>St. Joseph, guardian of the Word Incarnate, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>St. Joseph, favorite of the King of heaven, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>St. Joseph, ruler of the family of Jesus, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>St. Joseph, spouse of the ever-blessed Virgin, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>St. Joseph, nursing-father to the Son of God, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<pb n='135'/><anchor id='Pg135'/>
<l>St. Joseph, example of humility and obedience, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>St. Joseph, mirror of silence and resignation, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>St. Joseph, patron of innocence and youth, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>St. Joseph, exiled with Christ in Egypt, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>St. Joseph, intercessor for the afflicted, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>St. Joseph, advocate for the humble, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>St. Joseph, model of every virtue, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>St. Joseph, honored among men, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>St. Joseph, union of all Christian perfection, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>St. Joseph, patron of the dying, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Lamb of God, Who takest away the sins of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Spare us, O Lord</hi>!</l>
<l>Lamb of God, Who takest away the sins of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Graciously hear us, O Lord</hi>!</l>
<l>Lamb of God, Who takest away the sins of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us, O Lord</hi>!</l>
</lg>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Pray for us, O holy St. Joseph.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> That we may be made worthy of the promises of Christ.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Let Us Pray.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Grant, O Lord, we beseech Thee, by the merits of the
spouse of Thy most holy Mother, that what our unworthiness
cannot obtain may be given us by his intercession with Thee,
Who livest and reignest with God the Father in the unity of the
Holy Ghost, world without end. Amen.
</p>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='136'/><anchor id='Pg136'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>April. The Passion: Meditations for Every Day of Lent.</head>

<p>
During the month of April we generally celebrate Holy
Week, and so this month is dedicated to the Passion of
Our Lord. The followers of Christ should be acquainted
with the history of their leader, Jesus, the Master; they should
know what He has endured for His followers, and they should
think frequently of His sufferings, especially in Lent, when the
Church, in all her offices, keeps the commemoration of the Passion
foremost in her mind. There are many things to be done
during this month. You ought to recite the stations of the cross
privately, or be present when they are publicly performed; hear
sermons on religious topics, practise a little fast or abstinence.
This last is not so much to do, yet God takes note of it, and makes
a great fuss over it, like a father that has received an insignificant
present from his child. Take from any book the meditations on
the Passion, read them slowly, and with sympathy; slowly, so
as to be able to follow the recital and to be able to realize it; with
sympathy, that you should bring to it a feeling for Our Lord,
and show that you are touched with all that He endured for you.
The God-man going to a disgraceful death, after a most apparently
unsuccessful life, should make us feel for the loving Jesus.
St. Augustine remarks that nothing is so useful to our advancement
in the spiritual life, as daily to meditate on the Passion of
Our Lord. Certainly the most appropriate time for these considerations
and prayers is during Lent, which happens about this
time.
</p>

<p>
We shall give forty short considerations for every day in Lent.
They can be begun upon Ash Wednesday; we will then strive
to gain spiritual benefit from these considerations, by perusing
them with piety and with a great love for our crucified Lord.
Before the time of Augustine, Origen writes that it is impossible
for a man to remain in sin, as long as he often remembers the
<pb n='137'/><anchor id='Pg137'/>
sufferings of Our Lord, and nothing will so inflame our hearts
with love for Christ. Father Alvarez said that so many Christians
are lost, because they ignore the treasures that are concealed
in the Passion of Our Lord; and he led his penitents to
perfection by enjoining on them frequent contemplation of the
Passion. St. Francis de Sales tells us, <q>That every wound of
Our Lord is a tongue, which teaches what the Lord suffered for
us.</q> What flames of love will naturally burn in our hearts,
when we see the love with which Our Lord regarded us! Happy,
therefore, the soul who will find leisure for this holy exercise of
the mind and heart. <q>You will draw water with joy from the
fountains of the Saviour.</q> The sinner will receive confidence
in the mercy of God, and know that his case is not so desperate
as long as he has the wounds of the Lord to plead to the Father
for mercy and forgiveness&mdash;for all our transgressions have been
laid upon the shoulders of Jesus.
</p>

<p>
How, then, can we have any fear, says St. Paul, that God
will refuse us His graces? <q>He that spared not even His own
Son, but delivered Him up for us all.</q>
</p>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Considerations and Prayers for Every Day.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>First Day.</head>

<p>
Before Our Lord's suffering took place, He disclosed
to His disciples the story of the cross.
It was good for them to understand and to remember
what the sufferings of Jesus were to be. The prophets
of the Old Testament had declared that the Son
of man must suffer. Daniel, especially, describes the
Passion of Our Lord very minutely. This was the
future that was before Our Lord, and it was well that
the disciples should know it and think of it. So it
should be with ourselves. We, too, are the disciples
and followers of Christ, and we, too, must make the
Passion a subject of serious thought. The Church
has chosen the Lenten time as the most appropriate
for this exercise. She joins penance with this meditation,
as being the most efficacious means of stirring
<pb n='138'/><anchor id='Pg138'/>
ourselves up to a pious life. Let us approach these
meditations with a conviction that we are really
unworthy to be admitted to the graces of this holy
contemplation; but Jesus will help us.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus,
whilst before Thy face I humbly kneel, and
with burning soul pray and beseech Thee to fix deep
in my heart lively sentiments of faith, hope, and
charity, true contrition for my sins, and a firm purpose
of amendment; the while I contemplate with
great love and tender pity Thy five wounds, pondering
over them within me, whilst I call to mind the
words which David, Thy prophet, said of Thee, my
Jesus: <q>They pierced My hands and My feet; they
numbered all My bones.</q>&mdash;Ps. xxi. 17, 18.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Second Day.</head>

<p>
It is not hard to understand why the Lord desires
us to think of His Passion. St. Francis Xavier
is said to have gone over the Passion once every
month; but we know, too, with what love he was
attached to the Lord, with what wonderful patience
and perseverance he continued to labor. It was the
effect of the meditation on the Passion. We, too,
should grow in the love of Our Lord. But how will
we grow, unless by contemplating all that Jesus has
done for us in His Passion, until He died on the
cross? As the Apostle says, <q>He loved me, and
delivered Himself up for me.</q> In this way the
Lord wants us to study His Passion, so that we may
learn how intensely He loved us; that although He
was God, and we poor miserable creatures, still He
<pb n='139'/><anchor id='Pg139'/>
did not hesitate to sacrifice His life in order to redeem
us from eternal perdition.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus, etc.,
etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Third Day.</head>

<p>
Our Lord desires that we should think of His
Passion, in order that we may imitate Him in
our own sufferings: for we have many things to
endure in this life on account of the original fault of
our first parents. You will learn to die with Christ,
and your sympathetic heart will avoid sin. By the
frequent thought of the Passion the Lord will have
you love the sacrifice of the Mass, where in an unbloody
manner the Passion of Our Lord is repeated,
and we begin to appreciate it the more the better
we understand their relation to each other. The
Lord will have you show sympathy for Him in His
sufferings; for you must remember that it was for
you that He suffered, that you caused His suffering
by your sins. Now, if you have inflicted these
punishments on the Lord, would it not be an act of
horrible ingratitude if you were not to show your
sympathy for Christ? Another effect of the contemplation
of the Passion will be that you shall be
stirred up to do great things for Christ. Your time
of labor will be sanctified, and your life will be
given to the service of Jesus.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='140'/><anchor id='Pg140'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fourth Day.</head>

<p>
We should think often of the Passion of Our
Lord, but not with coldness or repugnance.
It is a sad subject, and not at all pleasing to the
human feelings, but when we have learned to love
Jesus it will be an exercise that will make us very
happy. We are dreadfully poor spiritually, and nowhere
will we be able to find more spiritual wealth
than in the Heart of Jesus in His Passion. <q>There
flow living fountains of blessed waters, there is the
bread of life.</q> Approach, then, with a lively faith to
the foot of the cross, and remain there faithfully;
let the blood of the Lord flow upon your body and
soul, realize that Jesus died for you, see Mary, our
dear Mother, beneath the cross; St. John and Mary
Magdalen, with some other faithful followers of
Christ at a short distance from it; associate yourself
with them and study what were their sentiments;
try to bring them home to yourself, and
your heart will surely fill up with love, gratitude,
and confidence.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fifth Day.</head>

<p>
The feeling of love towards Our Lord must be
specially aroused. We are supposed to have
the faith: but we need more love, so that we may
understand why Our Lord underwent such terrible
sufferings for poor humanity. Let us look upon the
Lord: He is an innocent, holy person, an untiring
<pb n='141'/><anchor id='Pg141'/>
benefactor, a true friend, a wonderful consoler, a
man of peace and of blessings, the noble Son of the
great King, the Son of God Himself. This good
Jesus has saved you from eternal damnation. He
descended from heaven and did the work of a
miserable slave. And the worst and bitterest consideration
is that you really, individually and personally,
are the cause of the sufferings of Christ.
You have struck Him in the face and spit upon
Him, you have crucified Him, you have mocked
and derided Him, and cried out, <q>Vah; if Thou
be the Son of God, come down from the cross.</q>
The Lord, reflecting upon all His sufferings, declared
that all this happened in the house of His
beloved ones. What did the Lord do to you, that
you should treat Him in this manner? Now then
return Jesus love for all this, and He will be satisfied.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Sixth Day.</head>

<p>
The Jews now began to consult among themselves
how to catch Jesus by some intrigue or
other. Our Lord could have avoided the Passion;
He might have prolonged His life, but He wanted
to die just then. The machinations of the Jews
could only furnish an occasion for the death of Our
Lord, but it was His own divine will that regulated
time, place, and circumstance. Judas the disciple
makes a contract with the high priests that on a certain
night, when the Lord would go out to Gethsemani
<pb n='142'/><anchor id='Pg142'/>
to pray according to His custom, the high
priests would be ready with their guards to bind
Him. For the miserable price of thirty pieces of
silver was the Lord sold, by a man whom He had
befriended so much in His career of public ministration.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Seventh Day.</head>

<p>
Let us consider the case of Judas in another reflection
and apply it to ourselves. Judas began
as well, perhaps, as any of the other disciples;
but now he is approaching the dreadful abyss of sin
into which he fell, as we know from the Gospel.
How much the Lord did for that disciple! By kind
words and patience, He made him understand that
though He knew of his impending fall, still He did
not cast him off, but tried to win him back. When
Judas had eaten the morsel which Our Lord had presented
to him, the devil seemed to have entered into
him. It was only then that the Lord gave him up,
and bade him go and do quickly what he had in his
mind. Now His mercy is at an end, and with terrible
severity Our Lord speaks of the scandal, and says
it would have been better that Judas had never been
born. All this shows that unless we co-operate with
the grace which God almighty offers us, we, too, shall
fall into sin, notwithstanding all the good instruction
and good example given us. It shows that if we
follow our own bent of evil intentions, we will go
from bad to worse in spite of all that God has done.
There are times of grace that are all-important for us.
</p>

<pb n='143'/><anchor id='Pg143'/>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus, etc.,
etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Eighth Day.</head>

<p>
When the Lord sat at the Last Supper He made
all the apostles aware of their future infidelity.
Simon Peter spoke for himself rather than for
all, when he said: <q>Although all should be scandalized
in Thee, I will not: I am ready to go with
Thee, both into prison and to death.</q> Our Lord
foresaw his frailty and corrected him for his presumption,
though no doubt it was well meant at the time,
and said to him, <q>Simon, Simon, behold Satan hath
desired to have you that he may sift you as wheat.</q>
Peter followed the Lord from afar, to see what the
end would be, and entering the courtyard of the prison,
he was accosted by a maid-servant, and before
her and the bystanders he cursed and blasphemed
that he <q>did not know the man.</q> As in the case
of Peter, so Our Lord knows our frailty&mdash;that we
cannot stand by ourselves. We ought to distrust
ourselves, and remember how sinful we have been,
and now that we stand be careful lest we fall.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus, etc.,
etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ninth Day.</head>

<p>
The Lord called His disciples together in order to
eat the Pasch with them for the last time on
earth, and also take a long farewell of them. They
<pb n='144'/><anchor id='Pg144'/>
would not meet again until after the resurrection. St.
John the Evangelist gives us much of the discourses
which the Lord held with His disciples. <q>Let not
your heart be disturbed,</q> He says, <q>at what is going
to happen to Me.</q> The sorrow at parting, and
the dreadful suffering which the Master was to undergo,
acted in a most depressing manner on their
spirits. No wonder they felt so downcast. He was
their great friend, the joy of their heart, and now He
is about to leave them. It is related that when Jesus
was a boy, His companions felt such consolation in
His presence that when any of them were distressed,
they would say, <q>Let us go to the Son of Mary; He
will console us.</q> Even now Jesus is our great joy
and consolation; now that He is to be found in the
Blessed Sacrament, now that He is in heaven at the
right hand of the Father, to Him we can always go,
and find refuge in His kindness.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus, etc.,
etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Tenth Day.</head>

<p>
At the Last Supper Our Lord continued His discourse,
consoling and encouraging His disciples
by telling them: <q>In My Father's house there
are many mansions; if not, I would have told you:
that I go to prepare a place for you.</q>&mdash;John xiv. 2.
Lift up your eyes, My beloved disciples, from this vale
of tears to heaven, where you are to dwell for all eternity.
My separation from you will be but short. I
will go to heaven, and where I am, My faithful servants
shall be. This earth is a desert for the one
<pb n='145'/><anchor id='Pg145'/>
that loves God; there is no hope of peace and perfect
happiness. Eternal joys are reserved for us in
heaven if we are faithful to Jesus, and confide in
Him. Though our sins may be many and great, we
will be washed clean in the blood of the Lamb, and
we may still hope to enter the realms prepared for
us by Christ Himself. Resolve now to be noble-hearted
in the service of God, and shrink not from
work or suffering.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus, etc.,
etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Eleventh Day.</head>

<p>
After the discourse at the Last Supper Jesus
takes off His outer garments, girds Himself
with a towel, pours water into a vessel, and approaches
Peter to wash his feet. For this purpose the Lord
kneels down and prepares to wash Peter's feet. Peter
is really shocked at this self-abasement; he revolts at
the thought that he should allow this to be done to
him by his divine Master, Whom he had acknowledged,
and Whom he knew to be God. Our Lord
practised this out of humility, at this solemn moment
just before parting from His disciples, to show how
important this humility is, and to make a great impression
on all of us. We, too, must be humble, and
humiliate ourselves as did Our Lord. We cannot
practise virtue without humility; we cannot enter
heaven unless we possess this virtue. He washes the
feet of the apostles just before the two great acts of
His life: the institution of the Blessed Sacrament
and the beginning of His sacred Passion.
</p>

<pb n='146'/><anchor id='Pg146'/>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus, etc.,
etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twelfth Day.</head>

<p>
Our Lord was determined to perform the ceremony
of the washing of the feet of St. Peter
and the apostles. He advised Peter to be obedient,
and to allow the washing to take place, otherwise
he would have no part with Him. When Peter
heard this he became very much afraid, and
with his usual ardor he cried out: <q>Lord, not only
my feet, but my head, my whole body.</q> Our
Lord answered: <q>He that has his feet washed
is entirely cleansed. You are washed clean, still
not all.</q> By this, reference was made to the condition
of Judas. Why does the Lord make reference
to the washing of the feet? Because it is
the feet that are soiled when we come in contact
with the world; but if our feet do not touch the
world, if our hearts are above the things of this
world, we may be sure that we have not contracted
any filth on the soul.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirteenth Day.</head>

<p>
After the ceremony of the washing of the feet,
Our Lord concludes His discourse by telling
His apostles that now He will not say much more to
them, for the prince of this world, Satan, is about to
<pb n='147'/><anchor id='Pg147'/>
approach to claim a share in His sacred humanity:
but in that He has no part. This He tells them,
that the world may acknowledge that the Son loves
His Father, and that He does all that is required
of Him.&mdash;John xiv. 30. There are many who love
to sit at the table of the Lord, to be filled with consolation,
and to enjoy the spiritual luxury of His
company. But few there are who would follow
Christ to the cross. We must not only love the
table of the Lord, but we must also be with Him in
His Passion. We should suffer the trials sent to us,
as good followers of the Lord Jesus. Remain then
with the Lord under all circumstances, whether it be
for consolation or bitterness of suffering. Some of
the saints understood this so well that they prayed
for afflictions.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fourteenth Day.</head>

<p>
And now, after the Last Supper, the Lord goes
forth with His disciples to the Garden of
Gethsemani, where He is so overcome with fear and
sorrow, that He seems to cling to the society of the
apostles for consolation. Falling down on His face,
He prays that the chalice might pass, yet not as He
would, but as the Father willed it. The disciples
slept as if they had lost all sympathy for the Lord.
But why is Our Saviour so distressed? Why is He
so downcast? The sins and the consequences of sin
appear before Him so vividly, and He is so overwhelmed
with them, that He feels His soul oppressed
<pb n='148'/><anchor id='Pg148'/>
unto death. He sees all the misery of humanity, all
the cruelty practised by man, all the ignorance and
degradation of the world; and for this He must suffer,
to bring God's mercy again to man. He is to take
upon Himself all the sins of mankind. He is to be
degraded to the level of a slave, to die the same
death, and all for us.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fifteenth Day.</head>

<p>
In the terrible agony of Our Lord in the Garden
of Gethsemani, the Lord saw all the sins of
mankind. He sees the injustice of man in comparison
to the eternal justice of God. He beholds their
ingratitude to His everlasting love, their obduracy
against the sweet mercy of God. This leprosy of
sin has been laid on the Lord, so that, as the Psalmist
says: <q>The confusion of my face hath covered
me.</q>&mdash;Ps. xliii. 16. He is filled with the confusion
of shame, because sin is so horrible. His soul is
overwhelmed with bitterness, because sin is so full of
malice and insult to God. Thus covered with our
shame, He appears before His heavenly Father,
prone on His face on the ground. The heavenly
Father does not recognize His Son; Jesus prays,
but is not heard. The justice of God casts Him
away. He begs the Father for help, but He will
not bend His ear to the supplication of His Son.
Jesus waits for consolation, but instead receives His
death sentence. He must drink the cup of sorrow
to the very dregs.
</p>

<pb n='149'/><anchor id='Pg149'/>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Sixteenth Day.</head>

<p>
The Lord bade His disciples watch and pray, but
hardly has He left them to themselves than
they fall asleep. Judas is not asleep; he is actively
engaged in getting his company together, giving
them instructions how to proceed, so that they might
elude the power of the Lord. But the disciples
sleep, and are careless of the Lord's interests. No
wonder that the indifference of the disciples gave
Him an additional pang. We, too, are the disciples
of the Lord. Why do we sleep while the enemy is
sowing the seed of error and irreligion? What effect
has the instructions, the counsels of the divine Master,
had upon us? They are all forgotten, and we
look to our own comfort and to our pleasures; we
go after the world, money and honors, but think
little of God. Let us then watch and pray; the
spirit is indeed willing, but the flesh is weak. The
soul would act otherwise, if the body had not been
allowed an almost limitless freedom while the soul
is dying of spiritual starvation. Give your soul an
opportunity to rise above the low necessities of the
body, and the spirit will then be strong to compel
the body to obey.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='150'/><anchor id='Pg150'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Seventeenth Day.</head>

<p>
When Our Lord had prayed and struggled in this
mortal agony, He arose and assembled His
disciples about Him, and awaited the coming of the
traitor. And as He was yet speaking, behold, the
crowd arrived, and Judas, one of the twelve, was
with them; coming up to Jesus, he kissed Him, and
the Lord said: <q>Judas, with a kiss you betray the
Son of man.</q> Judas thus betrays the Lord with the
sign of friendship. He comes up to Him as of old,
when returning from a missionary tour, he was met by
the Lord with open arms, and he, as well as the other
disciples, would tell of their labors, their successes,
and the good they had done. And now, as if to
throw the Lord off His guard, he pretends to have
the same spirit within his breast. O Lord Jesus!
with what kindness didst Thou not even then receive
Judas, that he might see that Thou didst still love
him. In our frequent infidelities the Lord comes to
us with the same sweetness and goodness. He would
lead us back to our duties and the recognition of our
faults. O that we would listen to the words of Our
Lord!
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Eighteenth Day.</head>

<p>
When Judas had given that traitorous sign,
the kiss of peace, the disciples all fled. Our
Lord had commanded, <q>If therefore you seek Me,
let these go their way.</q> No sooner had the disciples
<pb n='151'/><anchor id='Pg151'/>
seen that the Lord presented His hands to be
tied, than they ran off in the greatest hurry. They
had forgotten the assurance they had given that they
would remain faithful. They whose feet had been
washed in all humility by Our Lord, Who had fed
them a short time before with His sacred body and
blood. We are not far inferior in infidelity to the
disciples. In the morning we have gone to communion,
and before the day is over we have fallen
into grievous sin. We had made many resolutions
at our last confession, and at the approach of the
first temptation we have fallen into the same sins
again. We leave, without much concern, Jesus, the
best friend we have in this world. Oh, let us remain
faithful to the good Master of our souls,
Who, after this life is over, promises us eternal
rewards.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Nineteenth Day.</head>

<p>
Then the soldiers came up, and bound the Lord's
hands as He willingly offers them. He makes
no opposition whatsoever. He might have continued
the exhibition of His power by which they
fell back three times, and He might have walked
away. But the time of the Passion had come, and
He allows the soldiers to have the mastery over Him.
Christ has dissolved our bonds, and He is bound
Himself; in fact, by that binding Christ has merited
to loosen us from the slavery of Satan. But Christ
was also bound that we, too, may bind ourselves in
<pb n='152'/><anchor id='Pg152'/>
the law of God, and be faithful to its observance all
the days of our life. Tie your will to the chains of
the Lord Jesus; honor those chains, yes, even love
them, as they are the bonds of the union between
you and Him. Make up your mind to follow Christ,
to be united to Him, and never desire to be
freed from this close friendship.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twentieth Day.</head>

<p>
The priests, the high priests and the Pharisees,
the great enemies of the Lord, had held a
meeting in expectation of bringing the prisoner
for accusation and condemnation. This was the
court to which the innocent Jesus was dragged; these
were all His enemies. They all tried to destroy
Him, and now the opportunity seems to present
itself, and they are going to make the best of it.
They are going to condemn Jesus; they encourage
false witnesses, that they may make a show, at least,
of the justice of the condemnation. It is considered
necessary to put Jesus out of the way. <q>It is
expedient for you that one man should die for the
people, and that the whole nation perish not.</q>&mdash;John
xii. 50. In all this Our Lord is silent; not
a word does Jesus utter in self-defence. How
easily could the divine wisdom confound human ingenuity,
the skill of the lawyers, and the malice of
the high priests. But Jesus held a mysterious silence,
in which we must adore Him.
</p>

<pb n='153'/><anchor id='Pg153'/>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-first Day.</head>

<p>
Peter, the great disciple of Jesus, he to whom
the Lord had given so much, whom He had
brought to Mount Thabor, for whom He paid taxes
as for Himself; this Peter denied His Master.
When Our Lord had been apprehended, Peter followed
from afar, to see what would be the end of all
this tragedy. He went on at some distance from
Our Lord, until he reached the courtyard, where he
could see all that was passing. There, among the
soldiers, servants, and curiosity-seekers, he stood, as
if he had no interest in the affair except that which
would bring any stranger there. They would not
have known him, only for a woman who sat in such
a way that the light fell on Peter's face, and she immediately
declared, <q>This man was with Him.</q>
But Peter denied that fact; another and a third asserted
that Peter was with Christ, for he was a Galilean&mdash;but
Peter denied the accusation with an oath.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-second Day.</head>

<p>
We ought, right here, to think of the reasons of
the terrible treason of Peter. We may suppose
that his crime was no smaller than was that of
Judas. We know what was the fate of Judas&mdash;what
will be the fate of Peter? The cause of Peter's
<pb n='154'/><anchor id='Pg154'/>
fall was his presumption. He imagined that he
was strong enough to go to heaven, and to lead
a good life without watching or praying&mdash;of course
he would go to prison or death with Jesus. Instead
of following the Lord closely, right among the
soldiers who apprehended Him, he followed a long
way off, giving as an excuse that he wished to see
the outcome of the affair. He follows, and places
himself in the very occasion of sin. He knew he
could not be there long without being detected, but
he resolved to deny, and even to take false oaths to
secure himself.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-third Day.</head>

<p>
When Peter had thus, with indescribable meanness,
denied Our Lord, Jesus turned and
gave him a look of compassion. Then Peter recollected
the words of Jesus, that before the cock would
crow he would have denied Him thrice. Great was
the sorrow in the heart of Peter after this look; he
remembered himself, and filled with shame walked
out and wept bitterly. This look which the Lord
gave Peter was merciful and kind; so loving that it
drew him back again from the sin into which he had
fallen; it encouraged him to look for forgiveness,
and did not drive him to despair. Judas too acknowledged
his sin, but he felt no repentance; he
despaired of the great kindness of God. Instead of
throwing himself at the feet of Jesus, he committed
another crime&mdash;that of suicide. To Peter came a
<pb n='155'/><anchor id='Pg155'/>
flood of tears. There is no doubt that his sorrow
for this great offence lasted all his lifetime; he
could not think of the circumstance but the picture
of his infidelity arose before him.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-fourth Day.</head>

<p>
The infidelity of Peter should lead us to think
of our own condition. How often have we
sinned? how often have we been unfaithful to Jesus
Christ? how often have we betrayed Him? Did
we ever feel the tears of sorrow gushing from our
hearts? and if we did have sorrow and repentance
in the Sacrament of Penance, did we not soon forget
it all, as if our faults were less serious than they
really are? Often the Lord looks at us when we are
in sin, often have we felt that His eyes were on us,
full of love, of mercy and goodness; but we were in
sin, in the occasion of it, and we would not give it
up even though we added more sorrow to that
which Our Lord was already suffering. Set your
hope, however, in the Lord; look up to Him with
pleading eyes, that He may give you the strength,
the will, and the grace to rise from your fall. Say
to your sins, and your companions in sin, go away
from me. Yes, our sins more than any other misfortune
should make us despise the world, with all
its sinful allurements.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='156'/><anchor id='Pg156'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-fifth Day.</head>

<p>
Pilate put the question to the Lord, <q>Art Thou
the King of the Jews?</q> He wanted to hear
from Christ's own lips whether He pretended to the
earthly crown of a kingdom, over which the Roman
power held sway. But Our Lord had no kingdom
on this earth, and He answered, <q>For this was I
born, and for this came I into the world, that I
should give testimony to the truth.</q> Pilate did not
want to be convinced of the truth, and he answered
indifferently, <q>What is truth?</q> The Lord came
into this world to spread the truth of the Gospel;
He wished to teach us that truth which makes us
truly free. The Lord wishes to show us the way in
which we should walk in order to reach Him. But
the world is not anxious for such enlightenment, any
more than Pilate. For nineteen hundred years the
Church of God has been teaching truth. But the
world does not accept the teaching of Jesus as truth;
the world is too proud to receive this humble teaching.
And yet Our Lord's voice rings clear, <q>Every
one that is of the truth, heareth My voice.</q>
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-sixth Day.</head>

<p>
Pilate went out to consult with the Jews, the
accusers of Christ, and he told them that he
found no cause of death in Christ. He admitted
that there might be some rebellion which ought to
be punished, and that he would administer a severe
<pb n='157'/><anchor id='Pg157'/>
punishment and then would set Him free. See Our
Lord, humbly standing before this unjust judge; see
the soldiers, as soon as the order was given, tear off
His garments, drag Him over to the column of
marble, and there bind Him. Then they take the
stout cords, on the ends of which are leaden balls
with spikes, and whirling them over their heads,
they let them fall cruelly on Christ's shoulders.
The blood spurts from every wound, and soon the
place about the column is covered with blood. The
crime of that flagellation was so great that no human
words can express it. In what a dreadful state Our
Lord was left after it was over&mdash;how exhausted!
From the soles of His feet to the crown of His head
there was no sound spot in Him.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-seventh Day.</head>

<p>
When the Lord had been scourged, the soldiers
platted a crown of thorns and placed it on
His head, pressing it down, striking the crown with
sticks that they might save their hands from wounds,
and then they put a purple garment on Him. All
this was done to mock Him, because He said He was
a king: the crown of royalty He bore on His head,
and the purple garment which kings generally wore
covered His body. They carried out their derision
still farther; they bent their knees before Him, and
having blindfolded Him, they struck Him in the
face, asking Him to point out who was the one that
had given Him the blow. O loving face of Jesus!
<pb n='158'/><anchor id='Pg158'/>
upon which the angels desired to gaze; look with
pity on poor humanity that dost treat Thee so cruelly;
look with pity on our inordinate desires to satisfy the
demands of our passions. Ah, Thou knowest who
hast heaped these insults upon Thee! In Thy omnipresence
Thou seest the sins which we commit. The
Jews, indeed, treated Thee as a mock king, and like
a fool, whilst poor mankind in its ignorance hast prepared
all these torments for Thee.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus, etc.,
etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-eighth Day.</head>

<p>
Pilate must have witnessed much of this cruelty,
as it was inflicted right in his court, with his
consent, perhaps even by his orders. What a
frightful spectacle it was to look upon this figure of a
man, scourged almost beyond recognition, with a
crown of thorns on His head, bound, and a cloak
thrown over His shoulders. Pilate thought that this
spectacle would render the Jews merciful, that the
punishment had been sufficient. So he led Our Lord
over an archway and placed Him in full view of the
assembled multitude, saying: <q>Behold the man!</q>
Yes, O Christian heart, look at the Lord exhausted
after the scourging, the crown of thorns on His head,
clotted blood in His face, burning with a fever heat,
ready to die from loss of blood. O my Jesus, what
sufferings didst Thou not endure to satisfy the cruelty
of man! Thou hast become a spectacle before God
and the world. But the Jews were hardened. The
sight of Christ in this condition did not move them.
<pb n='159'/><anchor id='Pg159'/>
They cried, <q>Away with Him, away with Him,
crucify Him.</q>
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus, etc.,
etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-ninth Day.</head>

<p>
When the Jews demanded the death of Christ so
vehemently, Pilate had water brought to him,
in which he washed his hands, as a sign that he was
innocent of the great crime of condemning Our Lord
to the death of the cross. Still he condemned Him,
and wrote the inscription of the cross himself. The
Lord was led out to be crucified. St. Catharine of
Emmerich saw in a vision the rapture with which
Jesus received the cross. That He knelt down and
addressed the wood with loving words. It was the
consummation of the Lord's desires. His whole aim
in life was that He should die on the cross, so now
He stretches out His arms to receive that precious
burden, the seat of His love, the instrument of His
mercy, and the sign of triumph. Dear cross! no
longer are you the wood of disgrace on which malefactors
are to die; you are now the sign of glory.
No longer are you the accursed wood, but the glory
of the elect. Cross and altar are now the same thing
to us; the altar is our joy and happiness, so also is
the cross. The Christian who has no love for the
cross is to be pitied.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus, etc.,
etc.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='160'/><anchor id='Pg160'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirtieth Day.</head>

<p>
The Lord takes the holy cross on His shoulders,
at the foot of Calvary, and carries it up to the
summit. What a journey that was, full of sorrow and
pain! He falls several times; He meets His holy
Mother on the way and exchanges some words of
consolation with her. He meets the weeping women
of Jerusalem, and bids them weep over themselves
and over their children. Simon the Cyrenean is
compelled to help carry the heavy weight of the
cross. Veronica, a devout woman, offers a handkerchief,
that the Lord may wipe His sacred countenance.
Two malefactors are also to be crucified with
the Saviour. He does not despise their company:
He wished to be numbered among the most abject of
sinners, for He carries in His cross all the sins of
mankind. He has to make reparation to the heavenly
Father for them all. At this sight let us no longer
grumble at our crosses, but let us bear them lovingly
and cheerfully.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus, etc.,
etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirty-first Day.</head>

<p>
After terrible exertion in consequence of His
exhaustion, loss of blood, want of food and
rest, Our Lord arrives at the summit of Mount Calvary,
called Golgotha, the place of execution, the
mount of skulls. Our Lord would have died in consequence
of the terrible punishment He had received,
only the power of His heavenly Father kept Him
<pb n='161'/><anchor id='Pg161'/>
alive. Arriving on the spot, His clothes are cruelly
torn off His sacred body, the wounds are reopened
and bleed afresh. He kneels down, and at the command
of His executioners He extends His arms and
feet to the places to which they were to be attached.
The soldiers take nails and hammers, and drive
nails into the palms of His hands, fixing them to the
cross; then His feet are nailed also. When all this
has been done they raise the cross to an erect position
and set it in the ground. Mary, the Mother of Jesus, is
present; she hears the strokes of the hammer&mdash;every
sound pierces her heart. O Mother of sorrows! make
me feel the dreadful crucifixion in my soul; divide
thy sorrows with me. Mary Magdalen, the penitent
woman, hastens to the foot of the cross. St. John,
the beloved disciple, is there also.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus, etc.,
etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirty-second Day.</head>

<p>
The executioners then sat down before the cross,
and watched Our Lord. They played dice for
His garments; it was their sinful perquisite to take
possession of anything that a dying criminal left.
Our Lord was poor and had nothing but His garments,
and these were accordingly distributed. Our
Lord hung on the cross; not a word had so far passed
His lips; uncomplaining, sunk in deep prayer, the
sacrifice of the cross was going on for our sins, the
Lamb of God was on the slaughter bench, pouring
forth His blood without giving a sign of pain. He
hangs between two murderers. He is not distinguished
<pb n='162'/><anchor id='Pg162'/>
from them in misery, except that He prays
and they blaspheme. The Jews now celebrate their
triumph; they are gathered about in knots, mocking
and laughing. They invite Him to descend
from the cross: that then they would believe in
Him. Jesus still wears the crown of thorns, and
over His head, attached to the wood, are the words:
<q>Jesus of Nazareth, King of the Jews.</q>
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus, etc.,
etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirty-third Day.</head>

<p>
The first words which Our Lord utters after a
long silence, are words of mercy, and a prayer
for forgiveness: <q>Father, forgive them, for they
know not what they do.</q> Jesus prays for His enemies,
for His executioners, before He speaks a word
of comfort to His holy Mother. He looks for no revenge,
casts no threats at them, does not complain
of their inhuman conduct. He only thinks that by
His prayer He may save them. In the meantime the
thief on His right acknowledges his faults, defends
the Lord, and begs for mercy, which he receives on
the spot with a promise of being with Christ in paradise
on that very day. The centurion also acknowledges
the divinity of Christ, and many who are
around the cross strike their breasts, and are converted.
Now that the sacrifice had been offered
Jesus sees His Mother at the foot of the cross, and
the disciple whom He loved. Turning to Mary
He said <q>Woman, behold thy son,</q> and to the disciple,
<q>behold thy Mother,</q> and from that hour
<pb n='163'/><anchor id='Pg163'/>
John, as a dutiful son, took Mary under his protection.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus, etc.,
etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirty-fourth Day.</head>

<p>
After Our Lord had hung on the cross for three
hours, a great darkness came over the whole
universe. The sun refused to give light. Amid this
weird darkness and silence Our Lord completes His
sacrifice. When the world seems to desert you, and
the horror of God's vengeance appears to surround
you, take heart, raise your eyes to Jesus crucified,
and pray Him to strengthen you in patience and endurance
until the darkness is over, and you can again
find comfort in God's mercy. The Apostle Paul tells
us that Jesus, in the days of His flesh, poured forth
prayers and supplications with a great cry, and was
heard out of reverence.&mdash;Heb. v. 7. So the sacrifice
of Christ was accepted, and the debt which you
owed for your sins was expiated on the cross. You
need no longer be afraid that your wretchedness will
bring on you eternal damnation; by the merits of
this sacred Passion you have a hope that you may
enter into eternal glory.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus, etc.,
etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirty-fifth Day.</head>

<p>
<q>I thirst.</q> The greatest affliction Our Lord
had to endure on the cross was the thirst.
The fever after loss of blood and the severe and cruel
<pb n='164'/><anchor id='Pg164'/>
sufferings, the torments of a whole night, had dried
up the moisture of His body. <q>My strength is dried
up like a potsherd,</q> was said of Him by the Prophet:
<q>and My tongue hath cleaved to My jaws.</q>&mdash;Ps.
xxi. 16. We honor this holy thirst by abstaining
during Lent from all intoxicating drink, and many
souls have received great blessings from God for this
veneration. It is the intention that ennobles the act,
and the smallest offering accompanied by a good will
pleases God. Our Lord suffered this thirst to atone
for our sins, that we might not go to hell, where we
would thirst for all eternity. Remember Dives in
the Gospel, who begged for one drop of water to be
placed on his tongue. Our Lord, dying with thirst,
yearned for the salvation of your soul. This was the
thirst symbolized by His bodily thirst.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus, etc.,
etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirty-sixth Day.</head>

<p>
At last the hour has come, in which Jesus considers
that He has made reparation to His
heavenly Father for all the sins of mankind. The
chalice has been drained&mdash;all possible humiliation had
been heaped upon Him. Jesus cried, <q>It is consummated.</q>
All the work of salvation is now at an end.
All the sufferings that the Father has ordained in His
eternal providence have been undergone. <q>The
work which Thou gavest me, I have performed.</q>
The work of grace is accomplished. About the
ninth hour, Our Lord cried out, with a loud voice,
<q>My God, My God, why hast Thou forsaken Me?</q>
<pb n='165'/><anchor id='Pg165'/>
The Father had demanded the death of the Son. He
must be exterminated with the most cruel torments;
nothing less than death will satisfy the Father. He
turns to the Father for one look of kindness, but He
receives none, until that hated human flesh has been
punished.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus, etc.,
etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirty-seventh Day.</head>

<p>
O my dear Jesus, Thou art altogether forsaken;
there is nothing from which Thou canst
gather consolation and support. Even in the hour
of death Thou dost enter the portals of the other
world without one friendly face before Thine eyes.
Yes, Thou art forsaken; Thy strength, the assistance
of Thy Father, the light of Thine eyes, Thy holy
Mother, hath no consolation for Thee. The people
that stood around the cross did not know what that
great cry meant. Only Jesus knew it. He felt it.
How few people understand the language of divine
love! Who could think that the Father would desert
His Son, and would not be satisfied but with the
most extreme punishment! We should sympathize
with Our Lord in His cruel abandonment, we who
have been the cause of this agony. Our Lord
suffers the same feeling of desertion when we do not
visit Him in the Blessed Sacrament. Let it be our
joy, our pastime, our recreation, to go to Him, and
to thank Him for His great love for us.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='166'/><anchor id='Pg166'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirty-eighth Day.</head>

<p>
The last words which Our Lord uttered were,
<q>Father, into Thy hands I commend My
spirit.</q> Again Jesus calls God His Father. God
has accepted the sacrifice, and has taken His divine
Son to His bosom, hence the Lord calls Him
Father. The sacred countenance of Jesus takes on
the pallor of death, the lips are parted and the last
breath is gone. His soul has flown to the Father;
the adorable spirit of Jesus has entered the realms of
eternal bliss, where He is joyfully received. Jesus is
dead, but by the infinite merits of His death and
Passion He has freed us from death. Jesus is dead,
but by His death we have become children of God.
Jesus is dead, but we acknowledge Him to be our
good Lord, our Master and our King. The death of
Christ is our life, but we must exterminate sin, and
let the love of Jesus flame up in our hearts.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirty-ninth Day.</head>

<p>
<q>It is consummated.</q> All the sufferings of Our
Lord are now over. The depth of humiliation
has been reached, the bitter chalice has been
drained, the soul of Jesus has left the body, and the
body is dead. How often, dear Jesus, have I tried
to shake off the cross which God has imposed on me!
I, too, ought to remain fixed to the cross, until all is
over and the soul leaves my body. The fact is that
I have not the virtue of perseverance, that sister
<pb n='167'/><anchor id='Pg167'/>
virtue of patience, which protects our sanctity. I
ought to be able to say with Our Lord, <q>The work
which I was to do is completed.</q> The day will
come when I, and the whole world, will see the
mystery of my crosses: when I shall see clearly the
purpose for which I had to bear them. Give me
the grace, gracious Jesus, that I may welcome that
day, because I am conscious that I have done my
duty. With the consummation of the work will also
come my reward.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fortieth Day.</head>

<p>
When Our Lord had given up the ghost great
events took place, that struck terror to the
hearts of those who witnessed them, and which were
told from mouth to mouth. The great veil of
the Temple, behind which stood the holy of holies,
was rent. A terrible earthquake shook the earth, so
that the rocks were burst asunder. The graves
opened and men buried for years came forth and
stalked about the streets of the city. Then the centurion,
who stood beneath the cross and witnessed
these supernatural manifestations, exclaimed to those
who stood by him that truly this must have been the
Son of God. The soldier saw that all was over, and
he had but one duty more to perform before he could
go away: that of piercing the Heart of Jesus with the
lance. Then they took the body of the Lord from
the cross, and laid it for a moment in the arms of
Mary. Preparations were made by Joseph of Arimathea
and Nicodemus for the burial; hurried preparations,
<pb n='168'/><anchor id='Pg168'/>
for it was the eve of the Pasch. They laid
the body in the tomb, whence, on Easter Sunday,
Jesus rose triumphantly.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Look down upon me, good and gentle Jesus,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>A Method of Hearing Mass by Way of
Meditation.</head>

<p>
Before The Service Begins, While Waiting For
The Priest To Come In
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
call to mind the Last Supper, in which Christ instituted the
sacrifice of the Mass, and gave Himself to us all to be our food.
Oughtest thou not to acknowledge and give Him thanks for
this excess of love?
</p>

</quote>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Affections.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Jesus, <q>having loved His own who were in the
world, He loved them unto the end.</q>&mdash;John xiii. 1.
</p>

<p>
<q>For Thou hast prepared a table before me,
against them that afflict me.</q>&mdash;Ps. xxii. 5.
</p>

<p>
<q>I will sacrifice to Thee the sacrifice of praise,
and I will call upon the name of the Lord.</q>&mdash;Ps.
cxv. 17.
</p>

<p>
When The Priest Is Descending From The Altar
Before Commencing The Mass,
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
consider Christ after the Last Supper going from Mount Sion,
where the Supper had been held, to the Garden of Gethsemani.
<q>And His disciples also followed Him.</q>&mdash;Luke xxii. 39.
And wilt thou forsake thy God in the time of temptation and
trial?
</p>

</quote>

<pb n='169'/><anchor id='Pg169'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Affections.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>In what place soever Thou shalt be, my Lord
King, ... there will Thy servant be.</q>&mdash;2 Kings
xv. 21.
</p>

<p>
<q>It is good for me to stick close to my God: to
put my hope in the Lord God.</q>&mdash;Ps. lxxii. 28.
</p>

<p>
<q>Lord, I am ready to go with Thee both into
prison and to death.</q>&mdash;Luke xxii. 33.
</p>

<p>
At The Confession
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
contemplate Christ praying in His agony, when <q>His sweat became
as drops of blood trickling down upon the ground.</q>&mdash;Luke
xxii. 44. Thy sins forced out His blood; and wilt thou
not grieve on account of them?
</p>

</quote>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Affections.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>Who will give water to my head, and a fountain
of tears to my eyes? and I will weep day and night.</q>&mdash;Jer.
ix. 1.
</p>

<p>
<q>Father, I have sinned against heaven, and before
Thee. I am not now worthy to be called Thy
son.</q>&mdash;Luke xv. 21.
</p>

<p>
<q>O God, be merciful to me a sinner.</q>&mdash;Luke
xviii. 13.
</p>

<p>
When The Priest Kisses The Altar, And At The
Introit,
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
consider Judas betraying Christ with a kiss. And art not thou
also a traitor, whilst thou rejectest thy Saviour to embrace
some trifling pleasure?
</p>

</quote>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Affections.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>Impute not to me, my Lord, the iniquity, nor
remember the injuries of Thy servant.</q>&mdash;2 Kings
xix. 19.
</p>

<pb n='170'/><anchor id='Pg170'/>

<p>
<q>I know my iniquity; and my sin is always before
me.</q>&mdash;Ps. l. 5.
</p>

<p>
Lord, have mercy upon me, have mercy upon me.
</p>

<p>
At The Kyrie Eleison
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
reflect on the threefold denial of Peter, who did not repent until
the Lord looked upon him.&mdash;Luke xxii. 61. How often art thou
ashamed of thy Lord Jesus, and deniest Him before men?
When wilt thou repent and return to Him with contrition?
</p>

</quote>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Affections.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>I have sinned against the Lord.</q>&mdash;2 Kings
xii. 13.
</p>

<p>
<q>Cast me not away from Thy face.</q>&mdash;Ps. l. 13.
</p>

<p>
<q>Look Thou upon me, and have mercy on me.</q>&mdash;Ps.
xxiv. 16.
</p>

<p>
At The Gloria
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
think of the exultation of the Jews at the mocking and sufferings
of Christ. And art not thou as one of them, if thou
takest pleasure in wicked things?
</p>

</quote>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Affections.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>What shall we answer ... or what shall we
say?... God hath found out the iniquity of
[His] servants.</q>&mdash;Gen. xliv. 16.
</p>

<p>
<q>Convert us, O God, Our Saviour: and turn off
Thy anger from us.</q>&mdash;Ps. lxxxiv. 5.
</p>

<p>
<q>I will be glad and rejoice in Thee.</q>&mdash;Ps. ix. 3.
</p>

<p>
At The Collect, Epistle, And Gradual
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
think of all the accusations, mockeries, blows, and spittings,
which Christ endured in the houses of Annas and Caiphas.&mdash;John
xviii. 22. Christ was silent as a lamb before His shearers;
but how easily art thou made angry, and reproachest
thine accusers!
</p>

</quote>

<pb n='171'/><anchor id='Pg171'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Affections.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>Where is thy fear, thy fortitude, thy patience?</q>&mdash;Job
iv. 6.
</p>

<p>
<q>Thou art my patience, O Lord.</q>&mdash;Ps. lxx. 5.
</p>

<p>
<q>Set a watch, O Lord, before my mouth: and a
door round about my lips. Incline not my heart to
evil words.</q>&mdash;Ps. cxl. 3, 4.
</p>

<p>
At The Gospel
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
meditate how Christ was hurried from Caiphas to Pilate, questioned
concerning His teaching, and rebuked.&mdash;John xviii.
Dost thou value the precious doctrine of Jesus? Dost thou receive
it carefully thyself, and hand it on to others?
</p>

</quote>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Affections.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>Direct my steps according to Thy word: and
let no iniquity have dominion over me.</q>&mdash;Ps.
cxviii. 133.
</p>

<p>
<q>Thy word is a lamp to my feet, and a light to
my paths.</q>&mdash;Ps. cxix. 105.
</p>

<p>
<q>I will teach the unjust Thy ways: and the
wicked shall be converted to Thee.</q>&mdash;Ps. l. 15.
</p>

<p>
At The Credo
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
meditate upon Christ sent by Pilate to Herod, and by him sent
back again to Pilate (when he obtained not the signs he expected
to see), clothed in a white garment, as a silly person not worthy
of credit.&mdash;Luke xxiii. Art thou among those who, before
they will believe, demand of Christ that they may see a sign?
</p>

</quote>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Affections.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>Blessed are they that have not seen, and have
believed.</q>&mdash;John xx. 29.
</p>

<p>
<q>I do believe, Lord: help my unbelief.</q>&mdash;Mark
ix. 23.
</p>

<pb n='172'/><anchor id='Pg172'/>

<p>
<q>I live in the faith of the Son of God, Who loved
me, and delivered Himself for me.</q>&mdash;Gal. xi. 20.
</p>

<p>
At The Offertory
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
meditate upon the resignation of Christ and His offering Himself
to bear all things for the glory of His Father, and the redemption
of mankind.&mdash;Ps. xxxix. Art thou prepared to endure
adversity and affliction?
</p>

</quote>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Affections.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>I am ready for scourges.</q>&mdash;Ps. xxxvii. 18.
</p>

<p>
<q>I will take the chalice of salvation: and I will
call upon the name of the Lord.</q>&mdash;Ps. cxv. 13.
</p>

<p>
<q>Confirm, O God, what Thou hast wrought in
us.</q>&mdash;Ps. lxvii. 29.
</p>

<p>
At The Lavabo
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
reflect how Pilate sought to excuse himself for his most wicked
deed by washing his hands. But he did not escape the guilt
itself.&mdash;Matt. xxvii. 24. How often dost thou seek to conceal
thy sins, and to make excuses for them? So doing thou dost
rather increase than diminish them.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Affections.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>I will confess against myself my injustice to the
Lord.</q>&mdash;Ps. xxxi. 6.
</p>

<p>
<q>O God, Thou knowest my foolishness: and my
offences are not hid from Thee.</q>&mdash;Ps. lxviii. 6.
</p>

<p>
<q>Man cannot be justified compared with God.
If he will contend with Him, he cannot answer Him
one for a thousand.</q>&mdash;Job ix. 2, 3.
</p>

<p>
At The Orate Fratres
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
meditate upon Christ about to be condemned by Pilate, presented
to the people crowned with thorns and in a purple robe.&mdash;John
xix. 5. What will be thy state, O man, when thou
shalt stand before Christ the judge at the Last Day?
</p>

</quote>

<pb n='173'/><anchor id='Pg173'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Affections.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>Who will grant me this, that Thou mayst protect
me in hell, and hide me, till Thy wrath pass?</q>&mdash;Job
xiv. 13.
</p>

<p>
<q>I will let go my speech against myself, I will
speak in the bitterness of my soul. I will say to
God: Do not condemn me.</q>&mdash;Job x. 1, 2.
</p>

<p>
<q>For behold I was conceived in iniquities: and
in sins did my mother conceive me.</q>&mdash;Ps. l. 7.
</p>

<p>
At The Preface
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
reflect that the very same Jews who, five days before, saluted
Christ with hosannas, now cry out, <q>Crucify Him, crucify
Him.</q>&mdash;John xix. 6. Art thou guilty of similar inconstancy?
</p>

</quote>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Affections.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>Perfect Thou my goings in Thy paths; that my
footsteps be not moved.</q>&mdash;Ps. xvi. 5.
</p>

<p>
<q>Strengthen Thou me in Thy words.</q>&mdash;Ps.
cxix. 28.
</p>

<p>
<q>Thy hand [shall] lead me: and Thy right hand
shall hold me.</q>&mdash;Ps. cxxxix. 10.
</p>

<p>
At The Canon
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
meditate upon Jesus bearing His own cross as He went up to
Calvary.&mdash;John xix. 17. Dost thou not hear the voice of
Christ? <q>If any man will come after Me, let him deny himself,
and take up his cross, and follow Me.</q>&mdash;Matt. xvi. 24.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Affections.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>Draw me: we will run after Thee to the odor
of Thy ointments.</q>&mdash;Cant. i. 3.
</p>

<p>
<q>God forbid that I should glory, save in the cross
of Our Lord Jesus Christ.</q>&mdash;Gal. vi. 14.
</p>

<pb n='174'/><anchor id='Pg174'/>

<p>
<q>Let us go forth therefore to Him without the
camp, bearing His reproach.</q>&mdash;Heb. xiii. 13.
</p>

<p>
At The Elevation Of The Host
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
meditate on Christ nailed to the cross by His hands and feet,
set forth as a spectacle to the whole world.&mdash;Luke xxiii. 33.
Behold, O man, thy Redeemer! With what affection hast thou
hitherto embraced Him, Who here, with extended arms, invites
thee to His embrace?
</p>

</quote>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Affections.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>My Beloved to me, and I to Him.</q>&mdash;Cant.
ii. 16.
</p>

<p>
<q>Tell Him that I languish with love.</q>&mdash;Ibid. v. 8.
</p>

<p>
<q>Who then shall separate us from the love of
Christ? shall tribulation? or distress, or famine?...
For I am sure that neither death, nor life,
... nor any other creature shall be able to separate
us from the love of God, which is in Christ
Jesus Our Lord.</q>&mdash;Rom. viii. 35-39.
</p>

<p>
At The Elevation Of The Chalice
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
reflect how profusely Christ poured forth His blood from His
five sacred wounds for the washing away of our sins. Run to
Him, O sinner, that thou mayest be cleansed, and <q>draw
waters with joy out of the Saviour's fountains.</q>&mdash;Is. xii. 3.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Affections.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>Suffer me, therefore, that I may lament my sorrow
a little, before I go, and return no more, to a
land that is dark and covered with the mist of death.</q>&mdash;Job
x. 20, 21.
</p>

<p>
<q>Perhaps darkness shall cover me.</q>&mdash;Ps.
cxxxix. 11.
</p>

<pb n='175'/><anchor id='Pg175'/>

<p>
At The Memento For The Dead
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
reflect on the infinite mercy of God towards those who fear Him,
and pray for those holy souls who have departed this life according
to His justice, and in the one true faith.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Affection.</hi>
</p>

<p>
O Jesus, <q>enlighten them that sit in darkness,
and in the shadow of death.</q>&mdash;Luke i. 79.
</p>

<p>
At The Pater Noster
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
meditate upon the seven words of Christ uttered by Him upon
the cross: 1, Christ prayed for His enemies; what dost thou do?
2, The thief, repenting, obtained heaven; learn seriously to repent
and do penance, but delay it not to the last. 3, Christ
commends His Mother to St. John, and St. John to His Mother;
to whom canst thou better commend thyself? 4, Christ complains
that He is forsaken; and dost thou expect consolation as
thy right? 5, Christ thirsted for thy salvation; and dost thou
turn away from it with loathing? 6, Christ announced that all
His torments were finished; thus shall all thy good and evil in
this world be brought to a close. 7, Lastly, after the example
of Christ, commend thy spirit into the hands of thy heavenly
Father.&mdash;Luke xxiii. 46.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Affections.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>And forgive us our debts, as we also forgive our
debtors.</q>&mdash;Matt. vi. 12.
</p>

<p>
Make me also to hear, <q>This day thou shalt be
with Me in paradise.</q>&mdash;Luke xxiii. 43.
</p>

<p>
O Mary, <q>behold thy Son!</q>&mdash;John xix. 26.
</p>

<p>
<q>Forsake me not, O Lord my God: do not Thou
depart from me.</q>&mdash;Ps. xxxvii. 22.
</p>

<p>
<q>For Thee my soul hath thirsted.</q>&mdash;Ps. lxii. 2.
</p>

<p>
<q>Happy is he who hath finished his course, who
hath kept the faith.</q>&mdash;2 Tim. iv. 7.
</p>

<pb n='176'/><anchor id='Pg176'/>

<p>
<q>Into Thy hands I commend my spirit.</q>&mdash;Luke
xxiii. 46.
</p>

<p>
At The Division Of The Sacred Host
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
reflect upon the separation of Christ's soul from His body.&mdash;Matt.
xxvii. 50. It is appointed unto men once to die.&mdash;Heb.
ix. 27.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Affections.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>Let my soul die the death of the just.</q>&mdash;Num.
xxiii. 10.
</p>

<p>
<q>Whether we live or whether we die, we are the
Lord's.</q>&mdash;Rom. xiv. 8.
</p>

<p>
<q>Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord.</q>&mdash;Apoc.
xiv. 13.
</p>

<p>
At The Agnus Dei,
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
when the priest strikes his breast, reflect how many of those who
saw Christ dying on the cross, striking their breasts returned.&mdash;Luke
xxiii. 48. And dost not thou strike thy breast in token of
true sorrow for thy sins?
</p>

</quote>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Affections.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Lord, I strike my breast with the publican, and
say, <q>Be merciful to me a sinner.</q>&mdash;Luke xviii. 13.
</p>

<p>
<q>And now, O Lord, think of me, and take not revenge
of my sins, neither remember my offences, nor
those of my parents.</q>&mdash;Tob. iii. 3.
</p>

<p>
<q>Let Thy mercies speedily prevent us.</q>&mdash;Ps.
lxviii. 8.
</p>

<p>
At The Communion Of The Priest
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
meditate upon the burial of Christ.&mdash;John xix. 42. He asks
from thee thy heart as a sepulchre.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Affections.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>My heart is ready, O God, my heart is ready.</q>&mdash;Ps.
lvi. 8.
</p>

<pb n='177'/><anchor id='Pg177'/>

<p>
<q>Arise, O Lord, into Thy resting-place, Thou
and the ark [of Thy holiness].</q>&mdash;Ps. cxxxi. 8.
</p>

<p>
<q>My heart shall rejoice with Thee.</q>&mdash;Prov.
xxiii. 15.
</p>

<p>
At The Last Collect
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
meditate upon Christ's joyful and glorious resurrection.&mdash;Mark
xvi. 6. <q>For you are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in
God.</q>&mdash;Colos. iii. 3.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Affections.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>We look for the Saviour, Our Lord Jesus Christ,
Who will reform the body of our lowness, made like
to the body of His glory.</q>&mdash;Phil. iii. 20, 21.
</p>

<p>
<q>When shall I come and appear before the face
of God?</q>&mdash;Ps. xli. 3.
</p>

<p>
<q>I desire to be dissolved and to be with Christ.</q>&mdash;Phil.
i. 23.
</p>

<p>
At The Benediction
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
meditate how Christ, ascending into heaven, blessed His disciples.&mdash;Mark
xvi. 19. <q>Unto this are you called, that you may
inherit a blessing.</q>&mdash;1 Pet. iii. 9.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Affections.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>Save Thy people, O Lord, and bless Thy inheritance.</q>&mdash;Ps.
xxvii. 9.
</p>

<p>
<q>May God, our own God, bless us. May God
bless us.</q>&mdash;Ps. lxvi. 7, 8.
</p>

<p>
<q>Blessed are they that dwell in Thy house, O
Lord: they shall praise Thee forever and ever.</q>&mdash;Ps.
lxxxiii. 5.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Prayer at the Conclusion of Mass.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Accept, O Holy Trinity, this sacrifice of the body
and blood of Our Lord Jesus Christ, which I
have offered to Thy divine majesty in remembrance
<pb n='178'/><anchor id='Pg178'/>
of His Passion and death; and by His infinite merits
I beseech Thee that all my defects and negligences
may be supplied, for He is the propitiation for our
sins. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Litany of the Passion of Our Lord.</head>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>For Private Devotion Only.</hi>)
</p>

<lg>
<l>Jesus Christ.</l>
<l>Lord, have mercy on us.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Christ, have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Lord, have mercy on us.</l>
<l>Christ, hear us.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Christ, graciously hear us.</hi></l>
<l>God the Father of heaven, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>God the Son, Redeemer of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>God the Holy Ghost, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Trinity, one God, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, made man to redeem us, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, Who, during Thy whole life, didst burn with desire to
die for us, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, prostrate in prayer in the Garden of Olives, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, agonizing, and covered with a bloody sweat, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, comforted by an angel, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, betrayed by Judas with a kiss, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, tied and bound by Thy enemies, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, abandoned by Thy disciples, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, arraigned before Annas and Caiphas, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, struck on Thy face by a servant, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, accused by false witnesses, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, declared worthy of death, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, spit upon, blindfolded and buffeted, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, denied thrice by Peter, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, delivered in chains to Pilate, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, despised and mocked by Herod, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, to whom Barabbas was preferred, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, cruelly scourged with whips, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, wounded and bruised for our sins, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, clothed in derision with a purple garment, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, crowned with thorns, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, with a reed in Thy hand instead of a sceptre, derided and insulted as a mock king, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<pb n='179'/><anchor id='Pg179'/>
<l>Jesus, most unjustly condemned to the ignominious death of
the cross, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, loaded with a heavy cross and carrying it to Calvary, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, led as an innocent lamb to slaughter, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, nailed to a cross, and elevated upon it between
two thieves, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, Who hast loved us, and delivered Thyself for us,
as an oblation and a sacrifice to God, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, Who didst wash us from our sins in Thy blood, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, praying for Thy enemies, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, blasphemed by those who passed by, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, promising paradise to the penitent thief, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, giving Thy Mother to St. John for his Mother, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, complaining of being forsaken by Thy Father, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, drenched in Thy thirst with vinegar and gall, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, recommending Thy spirit into Thy Father's hands, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, bowing Thy head and expiring on the cross, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, Whose side was opened with a spear, whence issued
forth blood and water, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, taken down from the cross, wrapped up in a clean
linen cloth, and laid in a new monument, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, Whose soul after Thy death descended into hell, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Jesus, Who, in judgment, will demand an account of the
profit derived from Thy Passion and death, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Be merciful, <hi rend='italic'>Spare us, O Lord!</hi></l>
<l>Be merciful, <hi rend='italic'>Hear us, O Lord!</hi></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>From all evil, <hi rend='italic'>Lord Jesus, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>From the snares of the devil, <hi rend='italic'>Lord Jesus, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>Through Thy most bitter Passion, <hi rend='italic'>Lord Jesus, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>Through Thy infinite merits, <hi rend='italic'>Lord Jesus, deliver us.</hi></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>We sinners,</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Beseech Thee to hear us.</hi></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>That being dead to sin, we may live to justice, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee to hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That we do not glory but in Thy holy cross, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee to hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That for the love of Thee the world may be crucified to us,
and we to the world, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee to hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That we may always bear about in our body Thy mortification, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee to hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That we may crucify our flesh, with its vices and
concupiscences, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee to hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That Thy sacred blood may cleanse our consciences from
dead works to serve the living God, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee to hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That being partakers of Thy sufferings, we may be also of
Thy glory, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee to hear us.</hi></l>
</lg>

<pb n='180'/><anchor id='Pg180'/>

<lg>
<l>Lamb of God, Who takest away the sins of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Spare us, O Jesus</hi>!</l>
<l>Lamb of God, Who takest away the sins of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Graciously hear us, O Jesus</hi>!</l>
<l>Lamb of God, Who takest away the sins of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us, O Jesus</hi>!</l>
<l>Christ, hear us.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Christ, graciously hear us.</hi></l>
</lg>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> O Lord, hear our prayer.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And let our cry come unto Thee.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Let Us Pray.</hi>
</p>

<p>
O Lord Jesus! Who didst shed Thy precious blood for the
remission of our sins, grant, we most humbly beseech Thee,
that in the day of judgment we may merit to hear from Thy
adorable mouth these consoling words: <q>Come, ye blessed of
My Father, possess the kingdom prepared for you.</q> Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>A Prayer to Jesus Suffering.</head>

<p>
O spotless Lamb! O innocent Victim, Who,
by Thy death and blood, hast effaced the sins of
mankind, blot out my iniquities, and do not permit
that Thy sufferings should become useless to me. O
Jesus, abandoned by every one, sorrowful, desolate,
and resigned to death! help me now to receive with
resignation like Thine, whatever afflictions Thou
shalt please to send me. O Jesus, calumniated,
accused, despised! teach me to disregard the judgments
of men, and to suffer with patience the most
base injuries. O Jesus, torn with stripes, pierced
with thorns, weltering in blood for my sake! teach
me to endure for love of Thee, the anguish and inconvenience
of ill-health and sickness. O Jesus,
abandoned to executioners, shamefully condemned
to a cross! enable me to fly all vainglory, and embrace
the most humbling confusion. O Jesus, sinking
<pb n='181'/><anchor id='Pg181'/>
under the weight of Thy cross! I unite myself
to Thee, and my cross also to Thine. May I ever
carry it with the same strength and courage which
Thou didst. O Jesus, raised upon Thy cross! draw
me now powerfully to Thee. Thou art expiring
for my sake. Oh, let me never live but for Thine!
that being henceforth crucified with Thee, my whole
occupation may be to love, to praise, and to adore
Thee. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Prayers to the Five Wounds of Our Lord.</head>

<p>
To The Wound Of The Left Foot.
</p>

<p>
O my divine Saviour! I humbly adore the sacred
wound of Thy left foot, and I feelingly compassionate
the intense pain it caused Thee. I thank
Thee for the love with which Thou didst make Thy
painful journey to Calvary, marking every step of the
way with Thy precious blood. I offer to the eternal
Father the love and sufferings of Thy holy humanity,
in expiation of my crimes, which I detest with sincere
and bitter contrition.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, etc. Hail Mary, etc. Glory be to
the Father, etc.
</p>

<p>
O holy Mother, impress deeply on my heart the
wounds of my crucified Jesus.
</p>

<p>
To The Wound Of The Right Foot.
</p>

<p>
O my divine Saviour! I adore the sacred wound of
Thy right foot, and I feelingly compassionate
the intense pain it caused Thee. I thank Thee for
the love with which Thou didst suffer Thy sacred
feet to be pierced, and with barbarous cruelty nailed
to the cross, to atone for my wanderings, and for the
<pb n='182'/><anchor id='Pg182'/>
guilty indulgence of my disorderly passions. I offer
to the eternal Father the love and sufferings of Thy
holy humanity. I beseech Him to grant me the
grace to weep bitterly for my sins, and to persevere
in virtue to the end of my life, without ever straying
from the obedience due to Thy holy commandments.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, etc. Hail Mary, etc. Glory be to
the Father, etc.
</p>

<p>
O holy Mother, impress deeply on my heart the
wounds of my crucified Jesus.
</p>

<p>
To The Wound Of The Left Hand.
</p>

<p>
O my divine Saviour! I humbly adore the sacred
wound of Thy left hand, and I feelingly compassionate
the intense pain it caused Thee. I
thank Thee for having thereby, with so much love,
delivered me from the eternal punishments which my
sins deserve. I offer to the eternal Father the love
and sufferings of Thy holy humanity. I beseech
Him to grant me the grace to profit by the remainder
of my life, that I may bring forth fruits worthy of
penance, and thus disarm the divine justice provoked
by my repeated sins.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, etc. Hail Mary, etc. Glory be to
the Father, etc.
</p>

<p>
O holy Mother, impress deeply on my heart the
wounds of my crucified Jesus.
</p>

<p>
To The Wound Of The Right Hand.
</p>

<p>
O my divine Saviour! I adore the sacred wound of
Thy right hand, and I feelingly compassionate
the intense pain it caused Thee. I thank Thee for
all the blessings which this bountiful hand has so
<pb n='183'/><anchor id='Pg183'/>
abundantly bestowed on me, notwithstanding my
ingratitude in refusing to correspond with Thy
gracious designs. I offer to the eternal Father the
love and sufferings of Thy holy humanity. I beseech
Him to change my heart and affections, and to
render all my actions conformable to His holy will.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, etc. Hail Mary, etc. Glory be to
the Father, etc.
</p>

<p>
O holy Mother, impress deeply on my heart the
wounds of my crucified Jesus.
</p>

<p>
To The Wound Of The Opened Side.
</p>

<p>
O my divine Saviour! I humbly adore the sacred
wound of Thy opened side. I am exceedingly
moved at this cruel outrage. I thank Thee for the
love with which Thou didst suffer Thy side to be
pierced and Thy Heart opened, to give us even the
last drop of Thy precious blood that our redemption
might be most abundant. I offer to the eternal
Father both this outrage offered to Thy holy humanity,
and the love with which Thou art always ready
to receive the greatest of sinners, that my soul may
be received into this most loving Heart and may
abide therein forever. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, etc. Hail Mary, etc. Glory be to
the Father, etc.
</p>

<p>
O holy Mother, impress deeply on my heart the
wounds of my crucified Jesus.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='184'/><anchor id='Pg184'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>May. The Blessed Virgin Mary.</head>

<p>
We are now on the eve of the beautiful month of Mary&mdash;this
blessed month so ardently looked for by every true
Christian. On its approach we see the altars of our blessed
Mother in churches, chapels, and oratories decorated, and
everywhere during this lovely month exercises in honor of the
beloved Mother of Our Redeemer are performed with more or
less pomp and ceremony. Mary is our heavenly Mother, and
we are her children. What well-trained child but is anxious to
express his love and gratitude towards his mother, in order to
make her happy? What mother so worthy of love as Mary?
Do you wish to please her? This month gives you an opportunity
of so doing. Dedicate it to her, practise daily some little
act of devotion in her honor, and be faithful in making these
meditations. Then only will you deserve to be called a child of
Mary. O immaculate Mary, Mother of our Jesus, and our
Mother! also obtain that we may give thee most fervent homage
during this month, and by our words and example draw all
hearts to thee and thy divine Son.
</p>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Considerations and Prayers for Every Day.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>First Day. Mary's Immaculate Conception.</head>

<p>
<q>Thou art all fair, O My love, and there is not a
spot in thee.</q>&mdash;Cant. iv. 7. These words
are found in the Canticles of Solomon, and are
applied to the Blessed Virgin. From all eternity
she had been predestined to be the Mother of God,
<pb n='185'/><anchor id='Pg185'/>
to give to the almighty God that body, that flesh
and blood, which He was to assume for our redemption,
and the creature that He selected for His
Mother must have been all pure, all holy, and free
from the slightest taint of sin. A few saints, such
as John the Baptist and the prophet Jeremias,
were sanctified in their mother's womb. And if
these men, because of their predestination, were
born without sin, surely it cannot be supposed that
God did not bestow on Mary a greater privilege&mdash;that
He exempted her from the necessity of being
even for one instant the slave of sin. O Mother mine,
O Mother of the Church of God, I hail thee!
Have pity on us, O Mary conceived without sin, and
obtain for us the grace to struggle against our passions.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O holiest and purest of virgins, well dost thou merit
this title! Thou who wast a virgin although a
mother, pray for us. Take pity on us, thy children;
intercede for us with Jesus, that He may have mercy
on us, and grant us the grace to walk worthy of our
vocation, that we may be His through time and
eternity. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Second Day. Mary's Nativity.</head>

<p>
The whole earth was filled with gladness at
the birth of Mary, because of her was to be
born Jesus Christ, Our Saviour and Redeemer, Who
was to deliver us from the slavery of the devil. How
heaven must have rejoiced at the birth of such a
mother! A nation's joy at the birth of an heir to
<pb n='186'/><anchor id='Pg186'/>
the throne may give you some faint idea of the joy
the angels experienced at Mary's nativity. This is a
day of jubilation for the entire world, for the just and
the sinner, for time and eternity. Hell alone is
afraid, for this is the woman destined to crush the
serpent's head. Her appearance was the blessed
dawn, announcing the rising of the Sun of righteousness.
Made holy at her conception, the object of
God's love at her birth, every step in Mary's life
was marked by new progress in virtue; no shadow of
sin ever tarnished the beauty of her soul. Let us
then praise our Mother and Queen, and implore her
to take pity on us, whose lives are passed in a constant
struggle against the world, the flesh, and the
devil. Let us beg her to aid us in these combats,
and to bring us to our eternal home.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
What relief do I feel in my miseries, and what
consolation in my sorrow! what strength do
I not find in the midst of temptations, when I remember
thee, and call thee to my aid! O my most sweet
and holy Mother Mary, my own Mother, do thou
console me! I see myself loaded with sins and surrounded
with enemies, without virtue, and cold in
my love towards God. Comfort me, and let me begin
a new life, a life which will be pleasing to thy
divine Son and to thee. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Third Day. Mary's Presentation.</head>

<p>
Who is she that advances as the sun, beautiful as
Jerusalem? It is Mary, the well-beloved
daughter of the Father, who repairs to the Temple of
<pb n='187'/><anchor id='Pg187'/>
Jerusalem to consecrate herself to the service of God.
Happy he who gives himself to God in his youth,
who offers Him a heart which has not been wounded
by the thorns on life's weary way, a heart which has
not known the state of sin. He has not to struggle
against the memories of the past, which strive to
draw him from the service of God. How beautiful,
how filled with sweetest instruction for us, is every
passage in the life of our beloved Mother! Let us
look at the picture now presented to us of the infant
Queen of saints, on the day of her early entrance into
the Temple of God. Let us follow her, and learn our
first lesson from our little Queen, so full of grace.
See her as she passes up the long flight of stairs, the
little arms folded above the pure young heart, the upturned
face glowing with heavenly joy&mdash;a face where
lies reflected the light of a soul which never for a
moment was shrouded in the gloomy shadow of sin.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Lord, Thou wilt not reject a contrite and humble
heart! I come then to Thee, O my
Father. At the sight of my bruised and bleeding
heart Thou wilt have compassion on Thy child, and
receive my offering. Blooming rose, Mother of God
all beautiful, Virgin most sweet, pray for us, that we
may be worthy to find eternal happiness in eternal
light. Grant that by thy intercession our sins may
be effaced. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fourth Day. The Annunciation.</head>

<p>
God sent His archangel, St. Gabriel, one of the
great ones of His kingdom, to impart to the
<pb n='188'/><anchor id='Pg188'/>
Blessed Virgin, Our Lady, His eternal counsel, and to
ask her consent. The archangel went to Nazareth,
and before the rising of the sun entered the oratory
where the Blessed Virgin was, and beholding
in her his Queen, he saluted her with such reverence
that she was overcome with fear, not knowing what
to think. We know how the heavenly messenger
bowed before his Queen and said, <q>Fear not, Mary;
the Lord is with thee, for thou hast found grace before
God. Behold thou shalt conceive and bring
forth a Son, and thou shalt call His name, Jesus.</q>
And we know when that young maiden, bowing her
head in her heavenly humility, consented, saying,
<q>Behold the handmaid of the Lord; be it done unto
me according to Thy word,</q> that the Holy Ghost
overshadowed her, and <q>the Word was made flesh.</q>
Truly she is blessed among all women, blessed among
all mothers. By her blessedness all women are
raised and ennobled. She is their honor, their glory,
their model. Blessed Virgin and Mother, ever immaculate
on earth as now in heaven, where she leads
the army of virgins who follow the Lamb whithersoever
He goeth. Think of Mary raised above all
women, and see her wonderful humility. God loved
her for it. The one thought of her life, the one end
of her actions, was truly to be the handmaid of God.
This is a lesson we all must learn, namely: to yield
ourselves up to the will of Him Whose we are already
by so many titles, wondering how He can forget the
sins we have committed against Him, and how He
can desire to pour His celestial grace into so unworthy
a vessel.
</p>

<pb n='189'/><anchor id='Pg189'/>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
May Thy will, O God, be done in us, through us,
and by us, this day and always, here and
everywhere! Hail, glorious Mother of God; hail,
Queen of heaven; hail, my patroness! To thy tender
maternal love I commend myself, in order that
all my actions may have for their end three things,
namely, the glory of thy Son, my own salvation,
and my neighbor's good. In every tribulation and
sorrow come to my aid and the aid of my friends.
Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fifth Day. The Visitation.</head>

<p>
No sooner had Mary heard the words of the
angel, announcing that she had been chosen
to be the Mother of the long expected Messias, and
that her kinswoman Elizabeth was also with child,
than she rose up and went with haste into the hill
country, and entering into the house of Zachary,
saluted Elizabeth. Her heart was full of unselfish
love for God and man, and the very love of God
which made her heart burn with joy at the coming
of Jesus, made it also beat quickly with gladness at
the great blessing granted to Elizabeth. The angel
had told Zachary that his son John was to be the
immediate precursor of the Messias, and Elizabeth
had been constantly thinking of all this, longing to
know when and whence the Messias should come.
Lost in these thoughts she sat on the day of Mary's
arrival, and the instant that sweet voice struck on
her ear, it was made known to her in a wonderful
manner that this was the Mother of the Messias.
<pb n='190'/><anchor id='Pg190'/>
Rising, she knelt before her, crying, <q>Blessed art
thou among women, and blessed is the fruit of thy
womb. And whence is this to me, that the Mother
of my Lord should come to me?</q> For a moment
Mary stood in astonishment&mdash;then she realized the
greatness of her title of Mother of God, and while
the light of ecstasy transfigured her holy face, she
exclaimed, <q>My soul doth magnify the Lord, and
my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Saviour. Because
He hath regarded the humility of His handmaid:
for behold from henceforth all generations
shall call me blessed. Because He that is mighty
hath done great things to me: and holy is His
name. And His mercy is from generation unto
generations to them that fear Him. He hath
shewed might in His arm: He hath scattered the
proud in the conceit of their heart. He hath put
down the mighty from their seat, and hath exalted
the humble. He hath filled the hungry with good
things: and the rich He hath sent empty away. He
hath received Israel His servant, being mindful of
His mercy. As He spoke to our fathers, to Abraham
and to his seed forever.</q> The visit which
occasioned this beautiful canticle preaches in every
line the great virtue of charity which marked Our
Lady's life so clearly. The Holy Scripture tells
us that Mary remained with Elizabeth for three
months, when she returned to her own home.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Virgin most fair, worthy of all praise and
honor! Sanctuary consecrated to God, Virgin
Mother, hidden treasure of innocence, splendor
of virginity! Thy prayers are favorably received
<pb n='191'/><anchor id='Pg191'/>
on high. Address them for us to Him, Whom in
thy virginity thou didst conceive, Who is true Lord
and God, the Author of all creatures. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Sixth Day. The Birth of Our Lord Jesus Christ.</head>

<p>
And when the fulness of time was come, <q>God
so loved the world as to give His only-begotten
Son,</q> Who for us men, and for our salvation,
came down from heaven, was incarnate by the
Holy Ghost of the Virgin Mary, and was made man.
The Emperor Augustus ordered that a great census
should be taken in all the provinces of his empire,
each family being enrolled in the city of its respective
tribe. Thus, in obedience to the order, Mary
came to the city of David, and in all its length and
breadth there was not room for her to lay her weary
head. <q>He came unto His own, and His own
received Him not.</q> Gold would doubtless have
procured admission to an appropriate shelter, but
Joseph had no gold. The evening wind fell cold
and piercing on the young virgin, who breathed
not a word of complaint though she was scarcely
able to support herself. The lonely travellers,
seeing themselves rejected by all the world, quitted
Bethlehem, and in a poor ruined stable Mary
brought forth her first-born Son, the promised Messias,
and laid Him in a manger. Great artists have
striven to paint the rapture of Mary as she laid her
Jesus, her Son, her God, in the manger. Who can
understand what it was to see Him, to adore Him as
her God, to caress Him as her Child, to forget all
her fatigue in her wonderful joy? We can adore
Him and watch the movements of our beloved
<pb n='192'/><anchor id='Pg192'/>
Mother, a model and example of resignation on this
night of poverty and humiliation. Glory and praise
to thee, O holy Mother, in this thy poverty in Bethlehem!
Many a poor mother in sorrow and want
will look to thee and find consolation, knowing thy
tender heart will sympathize with her. For what
are we that we should be better treated than the
Mother of Our God?
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Immaculate Virgin, Mother of God, receive my
prayer. Help me in all my necessities, intercede
for me, O glorious one, with my Redeemer,
even with Him, thy divine Son, Whom thou didst
bear without spot of sin. Deliver me from every
snare of the enemy, and from all carnal delights,
that by thy intercession I may obtain the pardon of
all my sins, steadfast resistance to all my enemies
visible and invisible, and the amendment of my life.
Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Seventh Day. The Purification.</head>

<p>
It was ordered by the Law of Moses that all
women should, at a stated time after childbirth,
repair to the Temple and present themselves
to the priest, in order that they might be purified.
Could she who had been immaculately conceived,
an immaculate Virgin and Mother, be made more
pure? No, certainly not; but obedience required
that she should comply with the conditions of the
Law, and obedience was one of Mary's greatest virtues.
Should not her example fill us with confusion&mdash;we
who are apt to murmur against any command
<pb n='193'/><anchor id='Pg193'/>
that is in the slightest manner distasteful to our feelings?
The Law also commanded that every first-born
son should be offered to God in the Temple,
and then ransomed by some gift, according to the
condition of the parents. Mary and Joseph were
poor, so they took their humble offering of two
doves and set out for Jerusalem, to present the Son
of God in the Temple. As Mary walked on, with
her precious Child clasped in her arms, how little
the passers-by suspected Who this first-born Son
was! If they could have only known what He was
to do for His people, how they would have bowed
before Him and adored Him, poor weak Infant as
He was! But no, <q>He came unto His own, and
His own knew Him not.</q> <q>And behold there
was a man in Jerusalem named Simeon, and this
man was just and devout, waiting for the consolation
of Israel, and the Holy Ghost was in him. And
he had received an answer from the Holy Ghost,
that he should not see death before he had seen the
Christ of the Lord. And he came by the Spirit
into the Temple. And when His parents brought
in the Child Jesus, to do for Him according to the
custom of the Law: he took Him into his arms, and
blessed God, and said: Now Thou dost dismiss Thy
servant, O Lord, according to Thy word in peace:
Because my eyes have seen Thy salvation, which
Thou hast prepared before the face of all peoples.
A light to the revelation of the Gentiles, and the
glory of Thy people, Israel.</q> As Simeon stands
thus with the Babe in his arms, the Holy Ghost
shows him the sad, sad future of the Child and
Mother. Turning to Mary, he said: <q>Behold this
Child is set for the fall, and for the resurrection of
<pb n='194'/><anchor id='Pg194'/>
many in Israel.... And thy own soul a sword shall
pierce.</q> Oh, the awful sorrow that fell on her
young heart! For a moment she bowed down
under the crushing burden of her coming pain, but
only for a moment; then she stretches out her arms
to receive her Child, and murmurs, <q>Thy will, not
mine, be done; be it done unto me according to Thy
word.</q> What a lesson for us to learn, we who are
restless and impatient under every little trial! What
a contrast to our disobedience and pride when
God wishes to take some loved object from us!
Oh, let the example of this most perfect of women
sink deeply into our hearts, and may we learn from
her the great virtues of charity, obedience, humility,
and purity.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Mother of mercy, forsake us not in our hour of
trial and temptation! Never allow us to lose
courage, but cheer us with thy aid, make us patient
under suffering, and render our wills conformable to
the will of thy divine Son. Conduct us through
the dawn of penance to the fulness of thy light.
Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Eighth Day. Simeon's Prophecy.</head>

<p>
The holy Simeon had foretold that Jesus should
be a stumbling block to many. By these
words Mary understood that Jesus would suffer much
persecution from the Jews, and her immaculate heart
was deluged with sorrow. She saw Anna come into
the Temple and heard her acknowledge Jesus as her
God. She obeyed everything which the Law ordained,
<pb n='195'/><anchor id='Pg195'/>
and then with Joseph and her Child returned
to the city of Nazareth, with the sharp sword of sorrow
within her heart. Oh, the constant grief that
followed each ray of joy that lighted her soul! How
she suffered at every insult offered to her divine Son&mdash;she
who loved Him as no other mother ever loved
a child! Every look at Jesus, every movement that
He made, every word He spoke, brought to her
mind the prophecy of Simeon and filled her heart
with bitterness. The memory of those words were
always before her, and as time passed on she saw
Gethsemani and Calvary hourly drawing nearer and
nearer. The words of the prophet Isaias came whispering
to her heart, <q>He shall be led as a sheep to
the slaughter, and shall be dumb as a lamb before His
shearer, and He shall not open His mouth.</q> Yet
ever and anon she murmured, <q>Thy will, not mine,
be done.</q> Oh, what an example of loving resignation
to the will of God! It is astonishing how shallow
all human consolation is. Let Our Lady teach
us how to suffer without seeking consolation. She
suffered in silence; we can make our sorrows in a
measure like hers by constantly uniting them to the
sorrows of our dearest Lord. With confidence then
we may seek the Mother of sorrows, and ask her to
be the Mother of our sorrow, to help us bear our burdens
to the very end&mdash;to be like her, loving and patient
with those who cause us pain. It is a consolation
to those who mourn to know that our blessed
Lady was a lifelong mourner. So let us take up our
sorrow bravely, and following in the footsteps of our
dear Mother, walk cheerfully on.
</p>

<pb n='196'/><anchor id='Pg196'/>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Mary, Mother of sorrows, my refuge, neglect not
to pray for me in all my tribulations! First
of all in the blood of Jesus Christ, then in thy prayers,
do I trust for my eternal salvation. In thee, O
Lady, have I hoped; I will say to thee with St.
Bonaventure, <q>I shall not be confounded forever.</q>
Obtain for me the grace to love my God in this life
and in eternity, and I ask for nothing more. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ninth Day. The Flight into Egypt.</head>

<p>
Filled with joy and praising God, the Magi left
the stable with the intention of going to Herod,
so that he might share in the happiness. But an angel
appeared to them, warning them not to return to
Herod, for he sought to destroy the Christ, the new-born
Messias, so they turned their camels' heads and
went another way into their own country. Herod
did not intend, however, to be deprived of his Victim,
and lest he should miss taking the life of the
new-born King, he gave orders that all the children
of two years and under in and around Bethlehem
should be killed. While Herod is thus plotting the
Infant's death, an angel appears to Joseph in a dream,
to warn him, saying, <q>Rise, take the Child and His
Mother and fly into Egypt: and be there until I shall
tell thee. For it will come to pass that Herod will
seek the Child that he may destroy Him.</q> Joseph
and Mary immediately obeyed the command, for
poverty has but few preparations to make. Not a
murmur or complaint escaped their lips, though our
hearts can imagine how difficult it must have been for
<pb n='197'/><anchor id='Pg197'/>
Mary to leave home again, and to face the hardships
of the wilderness. Trembling with apprehension from
the dread of Herod's followers, and suffering from
heat and cold in their severest forms, they travelled
on for many a weary day. But God had so ordained
it, and they were ready to do His holy will. What
a lesson of perfect obedience! They knew that they
were carrying Jesus, yet they did not look for miracles
to lighten their burden. We may reverently follow
them on their journey in our meditations. Tradition
tells us of trees that bowed down their leafy heads to
shade with their fan-like plumes the Mother and her
Child. It also tells us that the images of the heathen
gods fell from their pedestals when the true God
went by. And there, amid the Egyptian idolaters,
Mary, the frail, girlish Mother, and Joseph, so
patient and uncomplaining, with the holy Babe dwelt
for seven years. Joseph pursued his trade of carpenter,
and Mary no doubt contributed her share to the
support of the modest household, while Jesus grew
in beauty day after day. When Herod died an angel
came to Joseph, saying, <q>Arise, and return into Judea,
for they who sought the life of the Child are
dead.</q> This was glad news to Mary and Joseph, and
joyfully they returned to commence anew their life
in Nazareth of Galilee.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Hail, Mother of mercy, Queen of heaven, thou
art our life, our sweetness, and our hope! Obtain
for me the grace of the Holy Ghost, that He
may dispose of me in all things according to His will,
that He may direct my body, elevate my soul, guide
my life, rule my conduct, inspire my actions, maintain
<pb n='198'/><anchor id='Pg198'/>
within me holy thoughts, pardon my sins of the
past, correct those of the present, and preserve me
from sin in the future. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Tenth Day. The Three Days' Loss.</head>

<p>
From the time of the return from Egypt, history
is silent as to the life of the Holy Family, until
the time when they went to keep the Easter festival
at Jerusalem. According to the Law, the Jews
were obliged to go up to Jerusalem to worship God
three times a year, unless they were legitimately hindered.
The first time was at the Pasch, instituted in
remembrance of the exodus from Egypt, and corresponding
to our Easter; the second time was the
feast of weeks, which was Pentecost or Whitsuntide;
the third was the feast of tabernacles. St. Luke, in
his gospel, gives us this account of the occurrence:
<q>When Jesus was twelve years old, they went up to
Jerusalem according to the custom of the feast.</q>
Unknown and unnoticed, Jesus, Mary, and Joseph
passed into the holy city. Mary's heart was filled
with joy at the thought that she was leading to the
Temple God's only Son made man. As she looked
at the surging crowd around her both within and
without the Temple, she thought to herself, <q>Ah, if
you could but know that this Boy, Whom you think
is only the son of a carpenter, is the Son of the most
high God! He is your King.</q> But the week of
unleavened bread came to a close. Thousands as
usual had thronged the holy city to worship God.
After the festival was over, the custom was that all the
women should depart by one gate of the city, the
men by another, in order to reunite at the halting-place
<pb n='199'/><anchor id='Pg199'/>
of the first night. The children might go either
with the father or with the mother. Thus it was that
Mary and Joseph travelled on contentedly, Mary
thinking that Jesus was with Joseph, while Joseph on
his side supposed the Child to be with His Mother.
The night had fallen before the two bands of men
and women met; imagine the consternation of the
holy parents when they discovered the absence of
their precious charge. They asked among their kinsfolk
and acquaintances if He were with them,
but Mary knew it would be all in vain. She
knew if He were in the company He would
long since have joined her; so in all haste, alone
and silent, Mary and Joseph retraced their steps
to the holy city. For three days they searched in
sorrow for their loved Child; they made inquiries
everywhere, but all to no purpose. On the third
day they heard of a wonderful Child Who sat daily
in the Temple disputing with the doctors. With
eager steps Mary and Joseph went to the Temple;
as they came along Mary's ear has caught the sound
of a voice which it is impossible for her to mistake&mdash;it
is the voice of Jesus. What a sight greets their
eyes as they enter&mdash;the great doctors of the Law sitting
around, and her Boy in the midst of them answering
questions! <q>My Son, my Son,</q> Mary
cries, <q>Why hast Thou done so to us? Behold, Thy
father and I have sought Thee sorrowing.</q> The
Son of God lifted His eyes and looked at her, saying,
<q>Why have ye sought Me? Did ye not
know that I must be about My Father's business?</q>
Nevertheless, He went down to Nazareth and
was subject to them. And His Mother kept
all these things in her heart. And Jesus
<pb n='200'/><anchor id='Pg200'/>
advanced in age and grace with God and man.
When we sin we too lose Jesus, Our Father and
Friend; but do we, like Mary, search for Him until
we find Him? We must not wait for Him to come
back to us; we must go and find out where He is.
Sometimes Jesus permits us to suffer pain and
anguish. When this is so, think of Mary, and how
sweetly and patiently she suffered during those three
days when she was separated from Jesus. Let us
also dwell on the obedience of Jesus; the Son of
God, Our Creator, was subject to His creature. Oh,
my God, give us grace to understand this great
mystery and strength to follow it!
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
What relief do I feel in my miseries, and what
consolation in my tribulation; what strength
do I not find in the midst of temptations, when I
remember and call thee, O my Mother, to my aid?
O my most sweet and most holy Mother Mary, my
own Mother, do thou console me! I see myself
loaded with sins and surrounded by enemies, without
virtue, and cold in my love towards God. Comfort
me, and let me begin a new life, a life which
will be pleasing to thy Son and to thee. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Eleventh Day. Meeting Jesus with the Cross.</head>

<p>
We have now come to the morning of Good Friday&mdash;to
Mary's meeting Jesus with the cross,
which is one of her seven dolors. It is twenty-one
years since the three days' loss, and the heart of
Mary has traversed a world of mysteries since then&mdash;always
<pb n='201'/><anchor id='Pg201'/>
in joy, yet always with her lifelong sorrow before
her. It would be impossible to make any calculations
of the sum of love which these years produced
in Mary's heart. But now the time has come
when Mary must give Jesus up, to be scourged and
to be put to death. The Passion may be said to begin
on the Thursday in Holy Week. The first Mass
took place that night, Our Lord's first unbloody
sacrifice, to be followed on the morrow by the
dreadful one of blood. By a miraculous grace Mary
is enabled to go through all the dreadful tortures of
that long night of pain. She hears the sound of the
scourging, and sees the cruel soldiers crown Him
with thorns, bandage His eyes, and dare to bend the
knee in mockery before Him Who has one day to be
their Judge. She has heard Pilate say, <q>Behold the
man,</q> and the cry of the people, <q>Crucify Him,
crucify Him!</q> and when Pilate said, <q>I am innocent
of the blood of this just man; look you to it,</q>
she heard the dreadful imprecation that was shouted
by the demons around her, <q>His blood be upon us,
and upon our children! Crucify Him, crucify
Him!</q> Then they lead Him away to pronounce
the final sentence. The streets are filled with a
great concourse of people, all going in one direction
towards Calvary. What a journey for Mary, yet she
never shrinks. Oh, how can we, when we look at
our sinless Mother suffering so patiently, how can we
murmur at the petty trials that God sends us?
Mary, with St. John and Magdalen, stands at the
corner. She does not even tremble. Hark, that
hoarse shouting, that trampling and hurrying of feet!
The procession comes in sight; the centurion leads
the way, the soldiers dragging Jesus and His heavy
<pb n='202'/><anchor id='Pg202'/>
cross&mdash;then the maddened crowd surge around,
about and behind her. She approaches to embrace
Him, but the soldiers thrust her rudely back. He
staggers, and falls with a dull, heavy sound upon the
street. O God of heaven! He falls, and His sweet
Mother must stand and look on. Well may she say,
<q>Look and see if there be sorrow like unto my
sorrow.</q> Men crowd around Him, and with curses
and blows drag Him up, and sweep on again on the
way to Calvary, to finish their impious designs. O my
Mother, I too was one of the agents in that cruel
work! Surely, when I see all that my most sorrowful
Mother had to undergo, it will cost me no great
effort to have a loving devotion to her. Can we look
on this sinless, uncomplaining Mother, standing in
the streets of Jerusalem, gazing on her Son and her
God torn and bruised, crowned with cruel thorns,
bending under the heavy cross which we gave Him,
and refuse to bear the little crosses which He gives
us? Oh, no! Let us look at our Mother, and like
her see all the beauty of our Jesus in the blood-stained
countenance of the God made man, and
carry most gladly all trials that our loving Lord may
send us.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most holy Mary, in the great battle in which
I am now engaged with hell, do thou always
help me! And when thou seest me wavering, and
likely to fall, O my Lady, do thou extend thy hand
and sustain me. Mary, my hope, my refuge, my
strength, do thou protect me, and never allow me to
lose the grace of God. And on my part, I resolve
always and instantly to have recourse to thee in all
<pb n='203'/><anchor id='Pg203'/>
temptations, saying, <q>Help me, Mary, help me.</q>
Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twelfth Day. The Crucifixion.</head>

<p>
The way of the cross is ended, and they have
come to Calvary. They have stripped Jesus
of His garments, and have laid Him on the hard bed
of the cross. Now commences the dreadful work of
nailing His blessed hands and feet to the cross. The
right hand is nailed to the cross first, but through
some mistake the left hand will not reach; then a
fearful scene takes place. The brutal soldiers pull
with all their force, until, dislocating the arm, they
succeed in stretching the hand to its place. Picture
Mary looking in mute agony on that dreadful scene!
His legs are stretched out, one foot crossed upon the
other, and through them the nail is driven. Now
the cross is raised on high, and Jesus hangs upon it.
In the past few moments Mary has suffered a world
of woe. The sacrifice of the Mother was inseparable
from that of the Son; it would have cost her much
less to have given her own life, and for this reason
she is justly styled the Queen of martyrs. The first
hour of the three long hours of agony has passed;
still Jesus is silent. The second hour begins. There
are fewer persons around the cross; all is silent, and
then His lips move. Mary listens with all her heart:
<q>Father, forgive them; they know not what they
do.</q> Beautiful, beautiful prayer&mdash;true of all sins
and of all sinners&mdash;<q>they know not what they do.</q>
Beautiful prayer also because it discloses the heart of
a God. For God alone could teach such charity as
this, and Mary, joining her Son in His prayer, looks
<pb n='204'/><anchor id='Pg204'/>
up to heaven and repeats, <q>Father, forgive them;
they know not what they do.</q> The third hour begins,
and His first word in this last hour goes through
her very soul: <q>I thirst.</q> Well might He thirst.
Since the night before nothing has crossed His lips,
and Mary, His Mother, is unable to give Him a
drink to cool them, parched and swollen as they are;
she cannot even reach to wipe away the blood that
has congealed there. Thus for three long hours she
watches Him in His death-agony, unable to afford Him
the slightest alleviation; until at last He cries out with
a loud voice, <q>Father, into Thy hands I commend
My spirit.</q> And bowing His head, Jesus dies.
Such were the sufferings endured by the Mother of
that divine Son. Jesus dies for love of us, and we
live to torture and crucify Him afresh. What sublime
lessons Mary here gives us, and how perfectly
is she the model of those souls whom God permits to
be sorely tried in affliction! Their trials are great,
but are they to be compared with hers? Ah, do not
complain, but to enable you to endure your sufferings
cast your eyes on this sorrowful Mother, and
ask her to obtain for you grace to imitate her firmness,
her constancy, and her generosity. After
Jesus on the cross, the most beautiful book one can
study is Mary at the foot of the cross.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most tender Mother, it was I that covered thy
divine Son with wounds, and put Him to
death! It was I that pierced thy heart with the
most bitter sword of grief! Oh, by those wounds
and by that blood, by thy sorrows and by thy tears,
I conjure thee, O Mary, to be my protectress and
<pb n='205'/><anchor id='Pg205'/>
my advocate. Pray for me, and for all sinners like
me, that so many precious sufferings may not become
useless to us. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirteenth Day. The Taking Down from the Cross.</head>

<p>
The sorrowful day is over. All have gradually
dispersed, and now only Mary and the other
holy women, with the disciples, remain at the cross.
The bruised and mangled body is lifted down, and
laid on the Mother's knee. When Our Lord dies
we are tempted to think that Our Lady's dolors
ought to have ended there; but no, there is still
more to be endured. Mary embraces the lifeless
body, washes the gaping wounds, smoothes the
tangled hair, and bathes away the clotted blood that
dims its glory. She wraps Him tenderly in a white
linen cloth, and gives Him into the reverential arms
of Joseph of Arimathea and Nicodemus. Both of
these were disciples of our blessed Lord. Joseph
was a good and just man, and Nicodemus was a man
learned in the Scriptures, who had come to Jesus by
night, for fear of the Jews, and had learned the doctrine
of regeneration. Joseph had gone to Pilate
and had begged the body of Jesus, which had been
granted to him. Now he takes Him in his arms,
and with the help of Nicodemus places Him in his
own tomb. Well has our blessed Lord said, <q>The
foxes have holes, and the birds of the air nests: but
the Son of Man hath not where to lay His head.</q>
Mary found nothing strange even in the tremendous
sorrows that almost crushed the life out of her. She
looks only to God's will. No matter how uncommon,
how exacting, or how apparently unreasonable, she
<pb n='206'/><anchor id='Pg206'/>
was always found prepared, always found with these
words on her lips, <q>O God, Thy will be done.</q>
Let us look at our lives, and see if we, like Mary, are
ever ready to do God's will; ever looking at Our
Lord crucified, and willing to bear all the disappointments,
trials, and sorrows that He may send us.
Let us look at our immaculate Mother, standing patient
and resigned at the foot of the cross, looking
on the sufferings of her dearly beloved Son, and we
will never murmur&mdash;no matter how heavy the cross
which our good God in His divine providence may
place upon our shoulders.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Mary most sorrowful! words fail to express the
gratitude we owe thee, for the readiness wherewith
thou didst consent to come to the rescue of our
lost world. But do thou deign to receive our
thanks, faint and inadequate though they may be.
May the enjoyment of thy present bliss move thee to
intercede with God in behalf of us, thy weeping,
weary children. Be propitious to those who flee to
thee for aid, and do thou ever intercede for those
whom thy divine Son redeemed. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fourteenth Day. The Burial of Jesus.</head>

<p>
It is now the evening of Good Friday, and Mary
is sitting at the foot of the cross with her
dead Son upon her lap. It is here that mourners
for future generations will come to find rest and
peace. Here the widow, the orphan, and the lonely
will find how good a thing it is to have their hearts
crushed with sorrow, because here they will find the
<pb n='207'/><anchor id='Pg207'/>
loving arms of their new Mother Mary around
them, and through their grief they will see God.
But now the time has come when Mary must give up
her treasure. So giving the signal to Joseph of
Arimathea and Nicodemus, they lift the body of the
dead Creator and move towards the garden tomb.
Mary arranges everything; she adjusts the winding-sheet,
and then takes her last look on the lifeless
body of Jesus. <q>Oh, look and see if there be any
sorrow like unto my sorrow!</q> Then her adopted
son, John, comes to her, drawing her away, for she
is half-dead with the grief and anguish of the past
night and day. Through the same gate by which
she had left the city of Jerusalem in the morning,
she re-entered it that night. Poor Jerusalem, that
city of God, how often had Our Lord yearned and
wept over it, longing to gather those chosen ones to
Himself! But no, they had rejected Him, and now
their cup of iniquity is filled. They have crucified
their King; their pavements are stained with His
blood. Mary knows all this, still there is no room
in her heart for bitterness. Oh, what a contrast to
our spirit of revenge, sometimes for even a fancied
wrong. We learn from this dolor of Mary that there
is no darkness like the darkness of a world without
Jesus, and if His absence is caused by our own fault,
our own sin, then it is the greatest of sorrows. O
Mary, my Mother, keep us ever by thy side at the
foot of the cross! so that remembering all that thou
hast suffered, we will gladly accept all the sorrows
that may come. Amen.
</p>

<pb n='208'/><anchor id='Pg208'/>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Virgin Mother most sorrowful, I detest my
sins because they have offended God, and
caused thee so much pain! I am sorry for them,
and will be sorry for them as long as I live, and according
to the best of my power will do penance for
them. Forgive me, dear Lord, for Thy mercy's
sake; pardon me all that is past, and be Thou my
keeper for the time to come, that I may nevermore
offend Thee. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fifteenth Day. Help of Christians.</head>

<p>
<q>She hath opened her hand to the needy and
stretched out her hand to the poor.</q>&mdash;Prov.
xxxi. 20. The whole life of our blessed Mother
shows how ever dear to her has been the alleviation
of the miseries that surround us. Everything in her
proves to us how justly the Church gives to her the
title of Help of Christians. Mary's desire to console
us in our miseries is so immense, so vehement,
that scarcely have we resolved to address ourselves
to her mercy than she immediately flies to our relief.
If Mary is already inclined and prompt to aid us,
even when we do not pray to her, what may we not
expect from her when we lay our miseries before her,
to beseech her to deliver us from them? The
Church urges us to apply unceasingly to her, to observe
faithfully the pious practices which are authorized
to be observed in her honor. With this view
the Church has established a great number of feasts
in the course of the year, to show her children that
they cannot pay too much honor to the Mother of
<pb n='209'/><anchor id='Pg209'/>
God. Happy is he whose love for Mary is ever
growing; he is enjoying in time one of the choicest
blessings of eternity. Let us then follow in the
spirit of our holy Church, and have frequent recourse
to the bounties of the divine Mother. If we would
only remember how anxious our dear Mother is to
assist and help us, how eagerly we would turn to her
in all our sorrows and joys. O holy Virgin, Help
of Christians, come to our aid in the midst of the
miseries by which we are surrounded! We entreat
thee, then, O Mother of goodness, to supply our insufficiency
and to bless our labor. Imprint thy love
in all hearts, so that having loved and honored thy
Son upon earth, we may go to praise Him eternally
in heaven.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Most loving Mother, no suppliant ever had recourse
to thee in vain! Whatever our needs,
thy ear is ever open to our cry. Thou art the Help
of Christians! O good and powerful Mother, come
to our aid, and deliver us from all our troubles.
Show thyself our Mother, intercede for each one of
us that we may lead a Christian life, and hereafter
reign with Christ throughout eternity. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Sixteenth Day. Our Lady of Mercy.</head>

<p>
Everything in Mary recalls the august character
of mercy. It is her essence, so to speak; so
that whoever names Mary names mercy, as Mary
cannot be without mercy. What could we not say
to prove that Mary is all mercy, and that everything
she does tends to clemency? But it may be that the
<pb n='210'/><anchor id='Pg210'/>
greatness or the sanctity of this powerful Queen
alarms us, and makes us fear to present ourselves
before her, we who are so guilty in the sight of God.
Let us take courage, for the more holy and elevated
Mary is, the more gentle and affable she shows herself
to the sinner. Mary welcomes all mankind
without exception; no one leaves her presence with
a disconsolate or sorrowful heart. Let our confidence
in Mary have no bounds, since we know that
her power equals the extent of her mercy. That
good Mother herself gave St. Bridget to understand
as much when she told her, <q>I am the Queen of
heaven, and the Mother of mercy. There is none
on earth to whom I refuse my pity; not one who
has not obtained some grace through my intercession.</q>
Who can doubt that it is true to say that
many who are now saved would have been lost except
for Mary? If it is true to say that he is happy
who loves Mary, so it is also true to say that there
will be woe for all eternity to him who in this life is
able to secure her mercy, but does not do so, and
thus loses himself by his own fault. Flee then to
Mary, O my soul; beseech her to take pity on thee,
and secure thy salvation, which cost her Son so dear,
and which is so priceless to her maternal heart. Be
assured that all will be well with thee if thou art not
lacking in true devotion and love to Mary.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O blessed Mother, thou art the Mother of God,
the Mother of sinners, the Mother of the
banished ones! Grant, O gracious Virgin, that I,
thy sinful child, may not be condemned by thy
divine Son; but do thou intercede for me, that He,
<pb n='211'/><anchor id='Pg211'/>
the divine Judge, may at last welcome me, a poor
exile, into His eternal home. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Seventeenth Day. Our Lady of Perpetual Help.</head>

<p>
It is impossible to study the history of Jesus and
Mary without perceiving a uniform law of Providence
uniting them in the great events of their lives.
Unless Mary had consented to become His Mother,
Jesus would not have been born. Divine grace, no
doubt, disposed her to give assent, but the act was
not the less one of her own free will. As certain as
man has been redeemed by the incarnation and
Passion of Jesus, so surely did God make the whole
depend in the first instance on the co-operation of
Mary. If, therefore, you believe that Jesus Christ
came to us through Mary, believe also that the
graces which He merited for us must come to us
through His Mother. If you believe that without
her you were not redeemed, believe also that without
her you will not be saved. God wished that Mary
should be looked upon and honored as the perpetual
help of sinners, to obtain their conversion. O
Mother of perpetual help! thou art the dispenser of
all those gifts which God granted to us wretched
sinners. He has made thee so powerful, so rich,
and so beautiful, in order that thou mayest succor us
in our misery. In thy hands I place my eternal
salvation, and to thee I consign my soul. I wish to
be remembered among thy devoted servants.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Mother of perpetual help, take me under thy
protection and I shall be secure! I shall not
<pb n='212'/><anchor id='Pg212'/>
fear Jesus Christ, my eternal Judge, for by one
prayer of thine He will be appeased. What I fear
is that in the hour of temptation, I may neglect to
have recourse to thee, and thus be lost. Obtain for
me, therefore, the pardon of my sins, final perseverance,
and the priceless gift to love Jesus Christ and
to have recourse to thee, O Mother of perpetual
help. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Eighteenth Day. Confidence in Mary.</head>

<p>
Let our veneration for Mary be full of confidence.
Our first parents had drawn upon us
the greatest of miseries, but through the divine
mercy a new Adam and Eve have more than repaired
our misfortunes. God could have performed
the work of redemption by other means; but He
preferred the very way by which man had lost his
innocence. That is to say, that as Satan first deceived
the woman, and through her means deceived
all men, so by a woman Satan in his turn should be
confounded, and men be saved. Of course Our
Lord is the true mediator between God and man,
yet it is also true that after having sinned, we dare
not appear before God. His presence fills us with
fear, so we have need of a mediatrix&mdash;and this we
have in Mary. If you desire an intercessor with
God, have recourse to Mary, all pure, all powerful,
and full of mercy. Oh, then, all you who are
exposed to the temptations of the world, raise your
eyes to this Star of the sea. Call on Mary, and you
will soon experience the powerful effects of her
intercession. Conducted by her, you will securely
reach the port of a blessed eternity.
</p>

<pb n='213'/><anchor id='Pg213'/>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Sweet and kind Virgin, full of dignity and
bounty, Virgin sanctified in the womb, Virgin
powerful as thou art pure, most glorious Mother of
God, Mother most chaste, and Lady most reverently
honored, I pray thee of thy goodness to preserve my
body and my soul from all sin, and take them both
into thy holy keeping. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Nineteenth Day. The Love of Mary.</head>

<p>
O Mary most amiable, who can name thee and
not be inflamed with love? What Mother so
worthy of love, so kind and generous to us as Mary?
To her heaven is indebted for the countless number
of the elect redeemed by the blood of her dear Son.
As Mother of Our Redeemer, Mary regards us as her
own possession. She knows how costly was the
ransom paid for us, therefore she never ceases to
intercede that none may be lost. How then could
we help loving this Daughter of the King, who
interests herself so much in our behalf? If we love
God we must love His holy Mother. It is our daily
task to love Jesus more and more, and experience
tells us that we never advance more rapidly in love
of God than when we are accompanied by His
Mother. There is no time lost in seeking Jesus if
we go at once to Mary. She is the short road to
Him, and speedy and full are the answers to the
petitions which her hand presents. O Mary most
admirable, obtain that we may love thee with all the
powers of our soul, with all the tenderness of our
heart, and with all our strength.
</p>

<pb n='214'/><anchor id='Pg214'/>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Mother most amiable and admirable! O wondrous
Mother, thou art all lovely and glorious!
Thou art the most blessed and most perfect of all!
Kind and gracious Mother, pray for us, win us grace
to love thee with a most tender love, that we may
thereby grow in love for Jesus, thy Son. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twentieth Day. Imitation of Mary.</head>

<p>
All true love consists in the imitation of what
we honor. If we love the immaculate Mary,
if we desire to please her, endeavor to imitate her
virtues, we must first imitate her in her life of
prayer. To lead a life of prayer it is not necessary
to spend hours on our knees in the church, for
every-day duties would not admit of that. We find
that Our Lady always left her prayer to spend an
allotted time at work. We should let the thought
of God be the first object of our waking love, and
the love of God be the absorbing feeling of our
heart. During the day we should every now and
then cast a loving glance towards heaven, and make
acts of love and gratitude. <q>If you imitate and follow
Mary,</q> says St. Bernard, <q>you cannot wander
from the road. Our Blessed Lady will fill you with
great confidence in God and in herself, because you
will not be approaching to Jesus by yourself, but
always by that good Mother.</q> O Mary, Mother of
the divine Saviour, Who from the height of His
cross, seeing each one of us in the person of the
beloved disciple, pronounced the memorable words,
<q>Behold thy son!</q> <q>Behold thy Mother,</q> obtain
<pb n='215'/><anchor id='Pg215'/>
that we may love and imitate thee with all the tenderness
and strength of our will.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Glory and honor be to thee, O Mary! Thy
throne is in the highest heavens! Be thou
our loving Mother; from the throne of thy glory
cast a glance on us, who are encircled with so many
dangers and trials. Pray to thy Son Jesus for us,
that we may emulate the purity of the angels, so that
we too may one day enjoy the <q>beatific vision,</q> and
praise Our Creator throughout eternity. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-first Day. The Blessed Virgin the Model of Faith.</head>

<p>
The Blessed Virgin has left us examples of faith
which are full of instruction and consolation.
She believed the mystery of the Trinity, that she
should conceive and bring forth a child; the words
of the angel announced this mystery to her. She
believed that the Son of God the Father was to take
the form of man, thereby making Himself like unto
us. She believed herself to be the Virgin chosen by
God in whom this mystery was to be accomplished.
The apostles had faith in Jesus Christ and acknowledged
Him to be the Son of God, but in the hour of
Our Lord's Passion they abandoned their divine
Master. It was not so with our blessed Mother;
she followed Him even to Calvary. O Mary, may
we understand well the excellence of this fundamental
virtue, without which it is impossible to please
God. It is by faith that Jesus Christ comes into our
hearts. By faith we resist the devil, and put him to
flight. Let us then love and value more and more
<pb n='216'/><anchor id='Pg216'/>
the precious gift of faith, and endeavor, after the
example of Mary, our Mother, to be animated by its
spirit. But the faith of the Blessed Virgin teaches
us another lesson: namely, that after her example we
should make an open profession of our faith, even
though by it we should lose goods, fortune, honor,
even life itself.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Mary, thou art the Queen of heaven and
Mistress of all created things! Obtain for us
the lively faith that animated thee, so that we may
grow in love, persevere to the end, and hereafter,
in company with patriarchs, prophets, and all the
elect of God, glorify thee, together with the Father,
Son, and Holy Ghost through all eternity. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-second Day. The Blessed Virgin the Model of Piety.</head>

<p>
According to universal opinion, the Blessed
Virgin dwelt in the Temple till she was about
twelve years of age. During those tender years
of her life she passed the greater portion of the
night in the contemplation of heavenly things,
giving but a very short time to repose. Chosen
by the Lord, adorned and enriched with His
most signal favors, the immaculate Virgin corresponded
thereto with constant and generous
fidelity. The devotion of Mary is worthy of imitation,
especially in this, that she gave herself up to it
from her early youth. Alas! how many souls have
perished because they have not followed this
example? On the other side how happy those who
have imitated the early devotion of the Blessed
<pb n='217'/><anchor id='Pg217'/>
Virgin! Oh, how strong and mighty we are with
Jesus Christ, when we are armed with the worthy
merits and intercession of the Mother of God!
O Mary, vessel of singular devotion, obtain for us
that, after thy example, we may be entirely devoted
to God!
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Most loving Mother, no suppliant ever had recourse
to thee in vain! Whatever our needs,
thy ear is ever open to our cry. Thou art the comforter
of the afflicted, O good and powerful Mother.
Come to our aid and deliver us from all our troubles;
intercede for each one of us that we may lead
a Christian life, and hereafter reign with Christ
throughout eternity. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-third Day. The Blessed Virgin the Model of Hope.</head>

<p>
The salvation of the just (as well of the body as
of the soul) is from the Lord. He is their
help in time of tribulation, He will uphold them
lest they fall, He will bring them out of danger, deliver
them from the hands of sinners, and will save
them in the end. And why will God bestow such
honors on the just? Because, replies the Psalmist,
they have hoped in Him, and put all their confidence
in Him. At the marriage of Cana, Mary saw
the sudden failing of the wine, and her tender
charity caused her to have recourse to the omnipotent
power of her Son. Our Lord up to that period
had not worked any miracles, but knowing His
tender Heart Mary hesitated not to have recourse to
Him, and her hope was not unfounded. Let us
<pb n='218'/><anchor id='Pg218'/>
then, like Mary, expose our wants to Jesus, and we
shall obtain strength and courage to aid us in the
accomplishment of our duties. Let us labor by
every possible means to obtain this great gift of confidence
by frequent prayer, almsdeeds, and penitential
works, as well as by great purity of life.
<q>Whatever you shall ask the Father in My name, I
will grant it to you.</q>
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Mother most amiable! By thy beauty and unsullied
purity thou wast ever attractive in the
divine sight. Entreat Jesus that He would grant us
grace to love Him more and more fervently, and
that by our purity and innocence of life we may
spread abroad the sweet odor of Jesus Christ, and
daily become more acceptable in His sight. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-fourth Day. The Blessed Virgin the Model of Humility.</head>

<p>
The Blessed Virgin possessed the spirit of humility
in a perfect degree. Not that she
failed to know the gifts which God had bestowed
upon her; on the contrary she ever remembered
that God had drawn her out of nothing, and she returned
Him incessant thanks for the favors which He
had given her. This virtue is most essential, since
without it there is no grace for us, no recompense in
heaven; while with it there is pardon, every blessing,
and eternal salvation. Let us often meditate on
these words of our blessed Mother when she went to
visit St. Elizabeth: <q>The Lord hath regarded the
humility of His handmaid.</q> The archangel Gabriel
had saluted her full of grace and blessed
<pb n='219'/><anchor id='Pg219'/>
among women, but the holy Virgin only humbles
herself more and more, confessing aloud that she is
but the handmaid of the Lord. What a contrast to
our pride and self-sufficiency! If, on account of
some appearance of good, we are charged with some
duty of importance, do we not immediately begin to
consider ourselves something? while in reality we
are but nothingness, misery, and sin. St. Basil says
there are three things which will establish humility
in the heart. First, a perfect conviction of our own
nothingness. Second, the constant consideration of
the conduct of the good, who are better than ourselves.
Third, persevering obedience to those to
whom we owe submission.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O tender Mother! despise not our petitions, receive
our homage, veneration, and love. Be
thou our Queen; in thee do we place our whole
trust, for thou art our gracious Mother. To thee do
we commit ourselves, body, soul, and spirit, with all
we have and are. Show thyself our Mother both in
life and death, O clement, O loving, O sweet Virgin
Mary. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-fifth Day. The Blessed Virgin the Model of Charity.</head>

<p>
It is truly Mary, who, after her divine Son, has
given us the most touching example of charity.
Everywhere she appears full of grace, of meekness,
consideration, goodness, mildness, and tenderness.
Her charity was as boundless as her love of God.
But now that she enjoys the clear vision of her Beloved,
how great must be the increase of her love
<pb n='220'/><anchor id='Pg220'/>
towards Him, and consequently of her charity towards
mankind. All her person, her looks, her actions, her
movements, her whole life breathe nothing but charity.
In going to visit her cousin Elizabeth, the
charity of Mary was manifested. This charity caused
her to leave her home to undertake a long and painful
journey under circumstances that unfitted her for
fatigue. The same virtue shone forth at the marriage
of Cana, when she saved the bride and bridegroom
the mortification of telling their guests that
the wine had given out. Her heart was one with
her divine Son, Who loved His enemies so much
that He gave Himself up for their salvation. Alas,
how we shrink from forgiving the slightest offence
that is offered to us! O my Mother, why am I not
inflamed by at least a spark of the love of God!
Then I would not find it so hard to forgive all who
have offended me.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
With deep humility do we exclaim, Pray for us, O
holy Mother of God! Thou art the Mother
of Him Who is Our Redeemer and Our God, but thou
art also the Mother of sinners, for whom thy divine
Son shed His blood. Intercede for us with Jesus,
and beg for grace that we may love Him with all our
heart and all our strength. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-sixth Day. The Virgin Mary the Model of Advancement in Virtue.</head>

<p>
Our spiritual advancement consists, as we have
often heard, in being well persuaded that
we are far from the height to which we aspire,
and on that account we should make constant efforts
<pb n='221'/><anchor id='Pg221'/>
to become better&mdash;because not to advance is to go
back. Persons who are aiming ever so little at perfection
are the choice portion of God's creation, and
are dear to Him as the apple of His eye. Oh, that
we could imitate Mary, who, full of grace from the
first moment of her conception, corresponded thereto
with such fidelity that the angels exclaimed, <q>Who
is she that cometh forth as the morning, rising fair as
the moon, bright as the sun?</q> The most exact observance,
not only of precepts but of the lightest counsels,
was the fruit of the love that burned in the
heart of Mary, so that she was never guilty of the
least imperfection. Ah, would that I too could speed
more rapidly onwards in the heavenly road! How
many graces would God then lavish upon me! O
Mary, my tender Mother, aid me to imitate thee in
thy advancement in virtue. O Mother most sweet,
draw us more and more by the sweet odor of thy
virtues to be a perfect disciple, imitator, and slave
of the Incarnate Wisdom, Jesus Christ, thy Son.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Mary, by thy example thou didst animate
confessors and virgins, sustaining them
in the dangerous struggle with the world, the
flesh and the devil. Aid us, too, O mighty Queen,
so that we may live as becomes the faithful disciples
of thyself and thy divine Son. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-seventh Day. The Blessed Virgin the Model of Patience.</head>

<p>
Of the virtue of perfect patience, the Blessed Virgin
has left us many bright examples. We
have meditated on her dolors and we have seen with
<pb n='222'/><anchor id='Pg222'/>
what wonderful patience she endured them. How
patient and firm she stood at the foot of the cross, on
which her Son was fastened, covered with wounds and
loaded with ignominy! Mary maintained an entire
resignation to the divine will, which she loved more
than her own, but this perfect conformity did not
render her less sensible to her martyrdom. She loved
to suffer because it was God's will that she should do
so. We are encouraged, by the example left us of
the invincible patience of Mary, to imitate it to the
best of our power and according to our degree of
grace. We shall follow, though distantly, in the
footsteps of this perfect model, if we bear with patience
the trials that overtake us, whether they be
loss of fortune, health, or reputation. If we feel that
we are getting angry let us overcome ourselves by silence;
for then it is that we have the most need to
be silent, because even the most prudent man when
roused to anger can with difficulty restrain himself
from angry words, which later he will regret heartily.
O my Mother, obtain for us from Jesus the gift of
patience, by means of which we shall acquire all
other virtues and be enabled to persevere in holiness
to the end of our lives. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O blessed Mother! Look graciously on thy
children; behold how we, by our sins, have
forfeited all claim to grace. Compassionate our misery,
aid us from the abundance of thy fulness, and
entreat thy Son Jesus that He would grant us grace
to be pleasing in His sight and thine, and to remain
faithful unto death. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='223'/><anchor id='Pg223'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-eighth Day. The Blessed Virgin the Model of Poverty.</head>

<p>
True and perfect poverty, says Albert the Great,
consists in voluntary renouncing all temporal
things for God's sake, in having but what is absolutely
necessary, and in sometimes retrenching even
in that for God; for where there is full provision
against necessity, there is no poverty. Throughout
her entire life Mary's perfect love of poverty is manifest.
It was evident in the obscure city of Nazareth
where this young virgin espoused to a poor carpenter
dwelt, and afterwards when she set forth with Joseph
for Bethlehem in obedience to the edict of Augustus.
On her arrival where does she find shelter? There
is no place at the inns for one so poor, so they are
obliged to take refuge in a deserted stable, and there,
exposed to all the inclemencies of the weather, the
Queen of angels brings forth the Son of the Most
High. Let every one, according to his state in life,
imitate the poverty of the Blessed Virgin. Those
who possess temporal goods should imitate her by
despising them, and by not loving them too much,
by estimating them at their true value, since they
pass away so quickly. Those who are poor from necessity
should imitate the example of the Blessed
Virgin, and freely embrace and be contented with
the state in which God has placed them.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
My most sweet, most compassionate, most amiable
Queen! Oh, how great is the confidence
with which St. Bernard inspires me when I have recourse
to thee! I am a poor sinner, deserving of a
<pb n='224'/><anchor id='Pg224'/>
thousand hells; I wish to change my life; I wish to
love my God, Whom I have so greatly offended. My
Lady, dost thou understand me? Yes, I trust that
thou hast understood me, and graciously heard my
prayer. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-ninth Day. The Blessed Virgin the Model of Obedience.</head>

<p>
Our Lord became obedient unto death, even to
the death of the cross, in order that we might,
after His example, labor to acquire and practise the
virtue of obedience. The perfection to which Mary
carried the obedience due to her Creator has been
implied in treating of the love of God with which
her heart was inflamed; it was the source of her perfect
conformity to the divine will. What an example
of obedience does she not give us in the presentation
of Jesus in the Temple! Mary was exempted
from the obligation common to all women to go to
the Temple to be purified. Nevertheless, as her
divine Son was pleased to submit to circumcision,
so she would submit to the law of purification. The
person who obeys merits very much while doing
little, because obedience springs from the spirit of
perfect self-abnegation, which is the most agreeable
holocaust to God. Thomas à Kempis says, <q>Whoever
willingly obeys his superiors for God's sake,
performs an heroic action as a valiant soldier of
Jesus Christ, for he will receive with the martyrs
the palm of a glorious immortality.</q>
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
My most sweet Lady and Mother, I am a vile
rebel to thy great Son; but I come repentant
<pb n='225'/><anchor id='Pg225'/>
to thy mercy that thou mayest obtain pardon for
me. From thee I hope for every good, forgiveness,
perseverance, and heaven. I hope to be one of
those, who, in the kingdom of the blessed will most
praise thy mercies, O Mary, for having saved us by
thy intercession. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirtieth Day. The Blessed Virgin the Model of Modesty.</head>

<p>
The Blessed Virgin was a perfect pattern of
modesty; her exterior senses were in all
things under the control of reason, and subjected to
the will of God; gravity and composure marked her
every movement. Oh, you who have the happiness
of having chosen her for your Mother, if you love
her as true children, endeavor with all possible ardor
to imitate her modesty. We should particularly try
to acquire that moderation of the tongue for which
the Blessed Virgin was so conspicuous, and for this
reason we should avoid all useless conversations.
The Holy Ghost Himself has told us that in much
speaking we cannot escape from sin. Thus walking
in the footsteps of our blessed Mother in the faithful
practice of this virtue, it will not only preserve us
from many falls, many temptations and dangers, but
it will also be a most powerful means of advantage
in the way of sanctity and of edifying and drawing
souls to God. Then will all our exterior conduct,
regulated by interior motives, tend to the glory of
God, the edification of our neighbor, and our own
advantage.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Most holy, immaculate Virgin, and my Mother
Mary, to thee, who art the Mother of my
<pb n='226'/><anchor id='Pg226'/>
Lord, the Queen of the world, the advocate, the
hope, and the refuge of sinners, I have recourse&mdash;I
who am the most miserable of all. I thank thee for
all the graces which thou hast hitherto granted me,
and especially I thank thee for having delivered me
from hell, which I have so often deserved. I promise
always to serve thee, and to do all that I can that
thou mayest also be loved by others. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirty-first Day. The Assumption.</head>

<p>
Tradition says that after Mary's sacred remains
had been most reverently entombed by the
apostles, songs were heard proceeding from her sepulchre
during the space of three days, and on the third
day St. Thomas came, imploring to have the slab removed
from the tomb that he might gaze for the last
time on the beloved features of Mary. The slab was
raised, but as he bent forward to look upon her, he
started back in amazement; naught was to be seen
save the grave-clothes in which the sacred body had
been enveloped. The body itself was nowhere to
be found. Then they knew that God had taken her,
body and soul, to heaven. St. John describes the
coronation in these terms: A great sign appeared in
the heavens; a woman clothed with the sun, and the
moon under her feet, and on her head a crown of
twelve stars; and the Queen thus crowned took her
place near her Son on a throne prepared from all
eternity. O you who fear the justice of God! O
you who dare not cast yourself at the feet of Jesus!
remember you have with Him a powerful advocate,
who is Mary. O Mary, thou blessed, loving Mother,
compassionate thy orphan children; pray for us, and
<pb n='227'/><anchor id='Pg227'/>
place us one day near thee in the heavenly Jerusalem.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O holy virgin Mary, who, in order to inspire us
with boundless confidence, hast been pleased
to assume the sweet name of Mother of perpetual
succor, we implore thee to come to our aid always
and everywhere; in our temptations, after our falls,
in our difficulties, in all the miseries of life, and
above all in the sad hour of our death. Amen.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Mass in Union with Mary Immaculate.</head>

<p>
Prayer Before Mass.
</p>

<p>
O Mary immaculate! I come to place myself
body and soul under thy special care and
protection. Take me by the hand, that thy purity
may hide the deformity of my soul, thy praises and
thy love may supply my deficiencies. I also place in
thy hands all my hopes, all my sorrows, all my
cares&mdash;my life and the end thereof. As thou didst
stand by the cross of thy Son, joining thy prayers to
His for man's redemption, so wilt thou come to help
me now. Kindle my devotion, aid me with thy
mighty intercession, so that I may worthily love and
praise my God, and participate in the merits of Jesus,
thy divine Son. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Confiteor.
</p>

<p>
<q>O Father,</q> will I cry with the prodigal, <q>I
have sinned against heaven and before
Thee. I am not worthy to be called Thy child.</q>
I have grievously offended Thee through my whole
<pb n='228'/><anchor id='Pg228'/>
life, and therefore am unworthy to lift my eyes to
heaven. O Mary, my Mother! beg of God grace
for me, and He will hear thee. Obtain that I may
know all my faults and devoutly make a sincere
avowal of them, followed by a true repentance, so
that I may obtain pardon for them through the loving
mercy of my God. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Introit.
</p>

<p>
Behold me, O my God, at Thy feet; dispose of
me as Thou pleasest. I devote myself entirely
to Thee, and since my sins alone can render me displeasing
to Thee, therefore I cry aloud to Thee for
mercy and pardon. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Kyrie.
</p>

<p>
Lord be merciful to me a sinner! O Father of
infinite mercy, have pity on Thy child! O
Mary, powerful advocate, help of sinners, aid us by
thy supplicating voice, and the just One by excellence
will descend as a long-expected rain! O Fountain of
love, grant this mercy to me and to all poor sinners!
Amen.
</p>

<p>
Gloria.
</p>

<p>
Glory be to God on high, and on earth peace to
men of good-will! I praise Thee, I bless
Thee, I adore Thee! Blessed angels, messengers of
Our Lord, who came before our King to prepare a
place in which He should descend, I beseech thee
in the name of thy love for Our God, teach me to
love Him. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Collect.
</p>

<p>
Glorious Virgin Mary, thou who art the true
mediatrix between thy sweet Son and poor
<pb n='229'/><anchor id='Pg229'/>
repentant sinners, pray for me, obtain for me the
favorable attention of Our God and Saviour. And do
Thou, O Jesus, enrich my soul with Thy gifts, to the
full extent of Thy tender compassion. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Epistle.
</p>

<p>
O most pure Mary, who knowest so well how to
penetrate and comprehend Jesus, open my
soul, dilate it, so that it may be replenished with that
abundance of gifts which it will receive from heaven
through thy intercession. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Gospel.
</p>

<p>
Ah, to whom shall we go, O Jesus, if not to Thee,
since Thou hast the words of eternal life?
Thou, O Jesus, my Lord and my God, art the true
light, for Whose dawn the saints of the Old Law
watched with longing eyes, looking to Thee for grace
and salvation. O Mary immaculate, Virgin always
faithful! lead us to Jesus, help us to find Jesus, and
attach us to Him forever by the bonds of perfect
charity, which, uniting us to His sacrifice during time,
will associate us to His glory in eternity. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Credo.
</p>

<p>
O my God, I firmly believe in one God in three
divine Persons, the Father, the Son, and the
Holy Ghost! I believe in Jesus Christ, the true and
only Son of God, Who was born of the Virgin Mary,
and died on the cross for our salvation. I also believe
all the sacred truths the Catholic Church believes
and teaches, because Thou hast revealed them, Who
canst neither deceive nor be deceived. O sweet Jesus,
<pb n='230'/><anchor id='Pg230'/>
give me knowledge and understanding that I may live
and die in this faith! Amen.
</p>

<p>
Offertory.
</p>

<p>
Accept, O eternal Father, this offering which is
here made to Thee by Thy minister, in the
name of all here present and of Thy whole Church.
It is yet only bread and wine, but by a miracle of
Thy power and grace it will shortly become the body
and blood of Thy divine Son. Now the august sacrifice
begins, everything recalls the sorrows of our
dear Jesus; His bitter agony, accompanied by a
most heroic act of perfect submission when He consents
to expiate every crime. O Jesus, Jesus! It is
I who have bound Thee! it is I who have had the
misfortune to lead Thee out to death! From this
instant, O Jesus, I give myself to Thee! O Mary, my
powerful protectress, purify us in the ardors of thy
pure love, and do thou thyself place us on the paten
with the bread, and in the chalice with the wine.
Amen.
</p>

<p>
Lavabo.
</p>

<p>
Create a clean heart in me, O God, and renew
a right spirit within me! Oh, wash me, dear
Lord, from all the stains of sin, in the blood of the
Lamb, that I may be worthy to be present at these
heavenly mysteries. O Mary immaculate, may thy
sorrows heal the wounds of my soul. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Preface.
</p>

<p>
Let us lift ourselves up to heaven, O my soul, and
render thanks to the Lord Our God. O Mary
most pure, aid us to break all the ties that still bind
<pb n='231'/><anchor id='Pg231'/>
us to earth. Oh, may I, great God, unite my heart
and voice with all the heavenly court, and cry with
them: Holy, holy, holy, Lord God of hosts! Blessed
is He Who cometh in the name of the Lord!
Heaven and earth are full of Thy glory! Hosanna in
the highest; blessed is He that cometh in the name
of the Lord; hosanna in the highest!
</p>

<p>
Canon.
</p>

<p>
We conjure Thee, O Lord, to listen favorably to
our humble prayers, to receive the vows and
supplications we offer. We desire to adore, praise,
and glorify Thee, and to give Thee thanks for Thy
great glory, joining our hearts and voices with all the
blessed in heaven, and with Thy whole Church upon
earth. O Mary, Mother of mercy! Ask Jesus to give
us the ineffable grace of appreciating, imitating, and
loving Him until death&mdash;that Jesus sacrificed by love,
and immolated perpetually for us upon our altars.
Amen.
</p>

<p>
Consecration.
</p>

<p>
The priest has said: <q>This is My body; this is
My blood;</q> and Jesus has descended into his
hands. The God of heaven and earth obeys a weak
creature. O mystery of love! O prodigy of annihilation!
O my soul, gratitude and love ought to
be thy language. Eternal Truth, in Thee I believe,
strengthen Thou my faith, that I may love Thee
ever more and more, and hereafter behold Thee face
to face in Thy celestial kingdom&mdash;my Jesus and my
all! Amen.
</p>

<pb n='232'/><anchor id='Pg232'/>

<p>
Elevation Of The Host.
</p>

<p>
Hail, Victim of salvation, eternal King, Incarnate
Word! Sacrificed for me and for all mankind,
O Jesus host, Jesus love, Jesus Saviour! Holy
Father, turn Thy eyes upon me, or rather look upon
Thy beloved Son. Give me all that I ask in His
name, and in the name of my immaculate Mother.
Amen.
</p>

<p>
Elevation Of The Chalice.
</p>

<p>
Holy, holy blood, flowing from my Saviour's
Heart, do thou cleanse me from all sin. It is
Thyself, again Thyself, sweet and blessed Jesus
Christ, Who art also entire within this chalice.
Again and again, I adore Thee, and beseech Thee to
be my salvation. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Memento Of The Living And The Dead.
</p>

<p>
And now, O my God, I wish to pray for all Thy
holy Catholic Church, and for all Christians,
religious and secular; to all give perseverance, O my
God! Remember, O Jesus, those souls purchased
by Thy precious blood, who have died in Thy peace,
but nevertheless are deprived of Thy presence.
Stretch forth unto them Thy strong right hand, and
bring them into a place of refreshment, light, and
peace. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Nobis Quoque.
</p>

<p>
I most humbly implore Thy mercy, O Lord, for
myself also. I beg pardon for all my sins; I
desire to detest them, and to renounce them forever.
Then, O my God, Thou wilt accept my gifts, and
<pb n='233'/><anchor id='Pg233'/>
we will render to Jesus all honor, praise, and glory.
Amen.
</p>

<p>
Pater Noster.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, Who art in heaven, hallowed be Thy
name, Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done
on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our
daily bread, and forgive us our trespasses as we forgive
them that trespass against us. And lead us not
into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Agnus Dei.
</p>

<p>
O Lamb of God, sacrificed for my sake, have
mercy on me! O adorable Victim of my salvation,
look down on me and save me! Divine
Mediator, obtain pardon of Thy Father for me a
sinner, and mercifully grant me the sweets of Thy
peace! O Mary, conceived without sin, obtain for
me purity of heart, soul, and body. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Communion.
</p>

<p>
In the presence of the true body and the true
blood of Our Lord Jesus Christ, O my God, I
place myself most humbly and devoutly at the feet of
Thy loving mercy. Make me avoid sin in the present,
pardon that which I have committed in the past, and
guard me against it in the future. O Mary, conceived
without sin, place me in the sanctuary of thy
maternal heart, so that, like thee, I may preserve
in peace, silence, and love, Him Whose possession
makes all my happiness, all my delight, all my hope.
Amen.
</p>

<pb n='234'/><anchor id='Pg234'/>

<p>
Benediction.
</p>

<p>
O Jesus, Saviour of my soul, pour down on me by
the hand of Thy minister Thy most abundant
blessing. Illuminate my heart with Thy clear light,
and grant that nothing may ever separate me from
Thee. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Last Gospel.
</p>

<p>
O Word made flesh Who didst annihilate Thyself
to give Thyself to me! Thou Who art the life
and light of the world, enlighten me. How ought I
not to be affected with the exceeding privilege I have
enjoyed. O my God! I unite myself to Thee by
the ties of love and gratitude; thus alone can I correspond
with Thy mercies. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Prayer After Mass.
</p>

<p>
And now once more I commend myself to Thee,
O my God! I commend myself throughout
the hours of this day to Thy keeping, to the keeping
of Thy holy Mother and of Thy holy angels, and bring
before Thee, for the same loving care, my kindred,
my brothers and sisters, my friends, my benefactors,
and all Christian people. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Litany of the Blessed Virgin.</head>

<p>
(An indulgence of three hundred days each time)
</p>

<lg>
<l>Lord, have mercy on us.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Christ, have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Lord have mercy on us.</l>
<l>Christ hear us.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Christ, graciously hear us.</hi></l>
<l>God, the Father of heaven, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>God the Son, Redeemer of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<pb n='235'/><anchor id='Pg235'/>
<l>God, the Holy Ghost, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Trinity, one God, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Mary, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Mother of God, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Virgin of virgins, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Mother of Christ, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Mother of divine grace, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Mother most pure, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Mother most chaste, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Mother inviolate, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Mother undefiled, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Mother most amiable, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Mother most admirable, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Mother of our Creator, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Mother of our Saviour, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Virgin most prudent, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Virgin most venerable, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Virgin most renowned, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Virgin most powerful, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Virgin most merciful, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Virgin most faithful, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Mirror of justice, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Seat of wisdom, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Cause of our joy, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Spiritual vessel, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Vessel of honor, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Vessel of singular devotion, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Mystical rose, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Tower of David, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Tower of ivory, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>House of gold, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Ark of the covenant, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Gate of heaven, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Morning star, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Health of the sick, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Refuge of sinners, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Comforter of the afflicted, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Help of Christians, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Queen of angels, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Queen of patriarchs, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Queen of prophets, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Queen of apostles, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Queen of martyrs, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<pb n='236'/><anchor id='Pg236'/>
<l>Queen of confessors, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Queen of virgins, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Queen of all saints, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Queen conceived without original sin, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Queen of the most holy Rosary, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Lamb of God, Who takest away the sins of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Spare us, O Lord</hi>!</l>
<l>Lamb of God, Who takest away the sins of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Graciously hear us, O Lord</hi>!</l>
<l>Lamb of God, Who takest away the sins of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us, O Lord</hi>!</l>
</lg>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Anthem.</hi> We fly to thy patronage, O holy Mother of God!
Despise not our petitions in our necessities, but deliver us from
all dangers, O ever glorious and Blessed Virgin.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Pray for us, O holy Mother of God.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> That we may be made worthy of the promises of Christ.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Let Us Pray.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Pour forth, we beseech Thee, O Lord, Thy grace into our
hearts, that we, to whom the incarnation of Christ, Thy
Son, was made known by the message of an angel, may, by His
Passion and cross, be brought to the glory of His resurrection.
Through the same Christ Our Lord. Amen.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> May the divine assistance remain always with us.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> And may the souls of the faithful departed through the
mercy of God rest in peace.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='237'/><anchor id='Pg237'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>June. The Sacred Heart.</head>

<p>
He who meditates on the life of Christ, and is acquainted
with it, instinctively strikes upon this trait in the character
of Jesus: The sweetness of His human Heart. The entire
life of our blessed Lord was one series of most loving acts.
We see Him at one time blessing the little children, at another
bestowing sight on the blind, loosening the tongue of the dumb,
pouring consolation into the aching heart of the mother who has
lost her child, and pardoning the repentant sinner. Is it not a
beautiful devotion by which we are drawn to view the loving
tenderness of His human Heart, by which He won all to His
side, so that not only His apostles clung to Him, but even the
very pagans loved and revered Him?
</p>

<p>
Let us then love and practise this beautiful devotion, by offering
that Heart the gold of charity and the incense of prayer.
Let us go with filial confidence to Him, Who has taught us to
lisp like an infant, <q>Abba, Father.</q> Let us repay Him love
for love, and make reparation for the injuries He daily receives
in that most kind Heart. Jesus in His turn will comfort us in
all our pains and afflictions. The Sacred Heart of Jesus is the
source of all charity and love; and through this devotion we
will learn to love our neighbor and to sacrifice ourselves for his
benefit.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<lg>
<l>Sweet Heart of Jesus, be my love.</l>
<l>Sweet heart of Mary, be my salvation.</l>
</lg>

</quote>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Considerations and prayers for Every Day.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>First Day. The Love of the Sacred Heart for Us.</head>

<p>
The love of the Sacred Heart for us is at once
the tender affection of a brother, and the infinite
<pb n='238'/><anchor id='Pg238'/>
love of the Son of God, with which, from all
eternity, Our Redeemer looked forward eagerly to
the salvation of mankind. He saw us doomed to
everlasting death, He saw us, and each one of us individually
among the number, unable to atone for
our sins. Then He offered Himself to satisfy the
justice of the Father. Thou didst implore mercy for
us, and it was granted Thee, only on condition that
Thou shouldst satisfy for us. And what satisfaction
was required! Torments the most cruel, insults the
most humiliating, death on the cross&mdash;that was the
price at which Thou wast permitted to redeem us.
Thou didst accept all, and wast even ready to suffer
more if necessary. Ah, Lord! What then shall I
do for Thee? What return can I make for such
great love? O generous, O incomprehensible
Friend! How can I ever repay the debt I owe
Thee, Heart of my Jesus? I abandon my whole
being to Thy sweet love, to live and die therein.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Adorable Heart of my Saviour, I adore Thee,
praise Thee, and offer Thee my whole self.
O divine Jesus, I beseech Thee to receive me to-day
into Thy Sacred Heart! Pour into my heart the
light, help and graces I need to conquer my enemies,
and to surmount all obstacles that will hinder my
salvation, and the Christian perfection required to
please Thee. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Second Day. The Heart of Jesus My Friend.</head>

<p>
Oh, what folly, what delusion can be worse than
to set one's heart on anything save Thee
<pb n='239'/><anchor id='Pg239'/>
alone, O God! How poor is he who seeks not his
whole good in Thy sweet friendship alone! Heart
of my Jesus, wounded for love of me, permit me to
draw nigh to Thy open side, and confess to Thee a
thousand times over that I love Thee. O Heart of
Jesus, forgive my past foolishness! O beloved and
adorable Redeemer, who will give water to my
head, and a fountain of tears to my eyes, that I may
weep day and night for the contempt shown to Thy
love, and the ingratitude with which Thy benefits are
repaid! O ye angels, who crowd the sanctuaries in
which dwells the divine Spouse of our souls, cease
not to pour forth at the foot of His altars the most
profound homage. One of the usual duties shown
by people towards those whom they respect are
visits. Jesus Christ is our Friend, our Father. He
is in our midst: we know it, and yet He is the only
One Whom we forget. Whoever thinks of visiting
Jesus Christ? We frequent the church and fulfil our
other religious duties, but do we always go through
motives of love or gratitude, and with the expected
intention of rendering homage to Our Lord? O
Jesus, could a more cruel wound be inflicted on this
loving Heart? O Sacred Heart of my Jesus, forgive
me, and vouchsafe me the blessing of remaining
forever Thy child.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Prostrate before Thee, O Sacred Heart of Jesus,
I humbly pay Thee all my homage, and my
profound adoration. I adore Thee, O Sacred Heart,
destined from all eternity to be God's masterpiece
and the prodigy of His power, wisdom and goodness.
Amen.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='240'/><anchor id='Pg240'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Third Day. The Heart of My Jesus the Heart of My Father.</head>

<p>
Heart of Jesus, Thou art my Father! All I
have is from Thee; at every step I meet with
proofs of Thy infinite love. Even when I strayed
away from Thee, Thou didst entreat me to return,
assuring me of pardon and love. If I shed tears of
sorrow, Thy love wiped them away, and Thy sweet
voice gave courage to my sinking soul. O my sweet
Jesus, be forever a Father to me! What an amount
of gratitude do I not owe to my Lord, when after so
much love and care, He reappears among us in the
Sacrament of the Altar? In thus dwelling among
us, He willed to unite Himself with us, in a way as
intimate as it is incomprehensible; shutting Himself
up under the appearance of bread, He enters into
our hearts and makes His own flesh our nourishment.
What a source of happiness for me, O my sweet
Jesus! My eyes do not see Thy divine face, but
my heart feels Thy comforting presence. When I
receive Thee, O Father, into my breast, I feel my
soul gladdened with the wine of heaven, <q>which
maketh virgins.</q> And since love causes lovers to
resemble each other, if we love let us form our life
on the model of Jesus. Let us therefore, belong
forever to the Beloved of our souls. Let us give
Him our whole heart, our love, our affections, inclinations,
and desires.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Allow me, O my Saviour, to offer Thee my
heart, and grant that I seek only to please
Thee in all things. From this moment I consecrate
<pb n='241'/><anchor id='Pg241'/>
my heart to Thee; take possession of it, destroy its
indifference, purify its affections, and give a new life
to its inclinations. O sweet Jesus, take possession
of me and consume me in the flames of Thy love.
Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fourth Day. In Thy Heart I Shall Find Peace.</head>

<p>
Thee, Thee alone, O Heart of my God, will I
love! Heart most pure, Heart most holy,
never tiring of my insults, ever forgiving and forgetting,
and, if I do but love Thee sincerely, admitting
me as a chosen friend to Thy sweet company. <q>Come
unto Me, all you that labor, and are heavily burdened,
and I will give you rest.</q> Seek not elsewhere
for relief in sorrow: come to the Heart of
One Who loves you. Never will you meet with a
more generous giver, never will you meet a kinder
friend, never will you meet one who will bear with
you more patiently in your trials and temptations.
Be comforted, then, my heart, in having this God of
love, Who will not abandon you; Who has no
sweeter choice than to hearken to your prayers.
Well, dear Lord, behold how my poor soul is chained
down, what billows of sorrow buffet it and all but
wreck it. Come then, O Heart of my Jesus, come
to me or I perish. In Thee alone do I find relief.
Be Thou a thousand times blessed, O sweetest Heart,
for all Thy mercy! O admirable Heart, forgive my
guilty wretchedness. Henceforth Thee alone will I
seek, Thee alone will I love. I shall serve Thee and
Thee only till my dying gasp, in hope of praising
and loving Thee forever more in heaven.
</p>

<pb n='242'/><anchor id='Pg242'/>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Sacred Heart of Jesus, be Thou praised and
blessed forever as the source of supernatural
life, the nourishment of the soul, and the sustenance
of the spirit! From Thy fulness all good is poured
out upon us. Fill my heart, I beseech Thee, with
the sentiments that inspired Thy adorable Heart.
Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fifth Day. The Sacred Heart of Jesus Teaching Charity.</head>

<p>
Thy Heart, O my Jesus, is a mystery of charity;
mine is a mystery of malice. I am ashamed
and confounded when I consider attentively Thy
Heart, O my Jesus! Thou, the Creator and Master
of all things&mdash;Thou art meek and lowly of heart,
and I, a poor outcast, am full of pride and presumption.
How often have I not outraged Thy love
and despised Thy law, and still Thou art silent and
forgivest me! Thou art ever ready to welcome
back Thy lost sheep, no matter how far they have
strayed, nor how deeply they have wounded and
insulted Thy loving Heart! And can it be that
after that I would dare violate the charity I owe my
neighbor? That I would, for a slight offence, allow
proud and revengeful feelings to take possession of
my heart? Oh, what a contrast to Thy gentleness
and patience! I cannot forget the least insult received,
whilst Thou, O my God, at the first sincere
prayer for pardon wilt forget all the injuries that I
have offered Thee. Could I then fail to choose Thy
Heart as a model for my own? But how can this
cold heart of mine ever resemble that kindest Heart
<pb n='243'/><anchor id='Pg243'/>
of Thine? Thou alone possessest the remedy. Behold
me then, O sweet Jesus, and mercifully regard
a misery so profound. <q>My heart is ready, O God,
my heart is ready.</q> I will extol Thee, O God my
King, and I will bless Thy name forever and ever.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Be Thou praised and blessed forever, O Sacred
Heart of Jesus, Who in the fervor of Thy
charity, hast devised a miraculous means of filling
hearts with the holy flame of Thy divine love. Impress
my heart so deeply with this divine seal, that
nothing may ever enter into it, or proceed from it,
that is not in conformity with Thy Sacred Heart.
Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Sixth Day. The Heart of Jesus My Comforter.</head>

<p>
To whom can I more confidently tell my many
needs and frailties than to Him Who knows
them more clearly than I do myself? Thy voice, O
Jesus, alone has the power to console and comfort
the heart that loves Thee. They are blind indeed
who go in search of consolation and happiness from
creatures. Why did I not fly to Thee when I felt
the first onset of this world? I turned hither and
thither, seeking on all sides for aid and comfort, but
I turned not my glance to Thee, Who alone canst
rescue the soul from sin. Heart of Jesus, oh, what
manner of love is Thine! Forgive my past foolishness,
and now that I return again to Thee, give me
grace never to leave Thee. Let my soul, like Magdalen,
rest at Thy sacred feet. Stay with me, O
Jesus, stay with me forever. Teach me what I must
<pb n='244'/><anchor id='Pg244'/>
needs do to live with Thee, and I shall trample
under foot all the joy and gain this world can offer
me. I shall embrace with gladness for Thy sake all
afflictions and all sorrows. But, O my God, shelter
beneath the wings of Thy love every instant of my
life, and encourage and strengthen my poor weak
heart.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Sacred Heart of Jesus, I adore the admirable
impulse which made Thee all Thy life a victim
of love, and led Thee to consummate it by a
death of perfect love. Grant that by Thy holy
grace, my heart may become a living sacrifice, desiring
only to be offered up and to offer up all
things for Thy greater glory. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Seventh Day. The Heart of Jesus My Helper in Trials.</head>

<p>
How few are there who love God alone for His
own sake, and bless Him alike in sorrow and
in joy! Why, O my God, do I fear to travel on
the royal road of the cross&mdash;the only road that Thou
hast travelled, and the shortest and surest way to
heaven? Do I forget that Thy cross sanctified and
redeemed the world, and formed the bliss of Thy
elect in heaven? Why, then, do I shrink from
carrying it with courage? Let us remember that
our union with Jesus crucified will be the measure of
our union with Him in glory. That in suffering for
Jesus we show our true love for Him. Oh, a thousand
times blessed are all who clasp the cross to
their hearts and follow Jesus. Be not sad, my soul,
when thou art in pain: the Heart of Jesus was
<pb n='245'/><anchor id='Pg245'/>
crushed far more than thine. That sweet Heart of
my Jesus was overwhelmed with sadness at the sight
of our sins, pierced with a thousand deadly shafts,
humiliated, abandoned by His Father: finally cruelly
wounded on the cross, shedding His blood, even
to the last drop. Compare such sorrow with
thine, and yet thou darest complain! Jesus, forgive
me, forgive such a vile wretch, and crown Thy
mercy and love.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O almighty and eternal God, look upon the
Heart of Thy well-beloved Son, and the praise
and satisfaction He offers Thee in the name of poor
sinners. Have mercy upon them, since they ask it
through this same Jesus Christ, Thy Son, Who liveth
and reigneth with Thee in the unity of the Holy
Ghost, one God forever and ever. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Eighth Day. In the Heart of Jesus I Shall Find Rest.</head>

<p>
O Heart of my Jesus, I will cast myself with
sweetest confidence into Thy bosom, and I
will rest on Him Who is the everlasting rest of the
elect in heaven. I will draw nigh unto Him Who
can sweeten all the bitterness of my weary pilgrimage
here. I will rest, as John the beloved disciple
did, on the Heart of Jesus, and tell Him a hundred
times over that peace and comfort cannot be found
elsewhere but in that sweet Heart. The Heart of
Jesus is the city of refuge, in which we are safe from
the pursuit of the enemy. It is the city of refuge,
which defends us from the wrath of an angry Judge.
Give thy heart to Him, for He has opened His
<pb n='246'/><anchor id='Pg246'/>
Heart to thee. Give not thy heart to the world,
but to Christ thy Lord. O Heart of Jesus! Thou
givest to the heart that loves Thee perfect peace,
great joy of spirit, and a foretaste of heaven's delight.
My God, make me love Thee, not coldly but
with a passionate love. All for Thee, O my God,
all for Thee alone&mdash;let this be my watchword, and
then only will I find true rest and peace. May
heaven and earth praise and bless Thee forever.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Sacred Heart of Jesus, I unite my heart to the
spirits of the blessed, that with them it may
sing to Thy glory before the throne of God. The
Lamb that was slain is worthy to receive power,
and divinity, and wisdom, and strength, and glory,
and benediction. By Thy virtue guard my heart,
and preserve it from the stains of its own sinful
desires. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ninth Day. The Heart of Jesus an Ocean of Love.</head>

<p>
O Heart of Jesus! Thou hast, in the greatness
of Thy love, come down to put on the garb
of humanity, and to take into Thy breast man's heart&mdash;to
make him a source of Thy delights: to soothe
the pain that sin inflicts on his wretched soul. O
God of love, what then shall I do for Thee Who
hast loved me with such an excess of love? What
return can I make for such great graces? Ah, yes!
I will address Thee with the sweet name of <q>Father,</q>
a God so generous and so great, and how easy will
it be for me to love Thee, O Jesus, my best Friend.
In thus dwelling among us He willed to unite Himself
<pb n='247'/><anchor id='Pg247'/>
with us in a way as intimate as it is incomprehensible.
And to bring about this, He instituted
the Sacrament of the Altar, and shutting Himself up
under the appearance of bread, He enters into our
hearts and makes His own flesh our nourishment.
This gift of the Eucharist, O my God, is of all Thy
wonders the very crown. In this banquet of love,
Thou hearest all our sighs and complaints, and Thou
forgivest all our sad errors and foolishness. O happy
Christians, what a source of happiness we possess!
Let us then give Him all the love and gratitude He
has a right to expect from us. Let our love be as
unlimited as the love Our God has shown unto us.
O Jesus, how sweet it would be to live for Thee and
Thee only!
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O my good Jesus, within Thy Heart, with sweetness
overflowing, I place myself; hide me
deep therein that I may never stray away. In life
my joy, in death my guide, be Thou unto me my
bliss in heaven. This I ask for every one, and I
ask it by Thy tears, Thy sweat, Thy sacred blood.
Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Tenth Day. The Ingratitude of Men to the Heart of Jesus.</head>

<p>
Wherever we cast our eyes we meet with sad
proofs of the ingratitude of men to the Heart
of Jesus. A large portion of the Christian world is
plunged in heresy, denying Christ's presence in the
mystery of the Altar, and not satisfied with refusing
to recognize this great benefit they have lifted their
sacrilegious hand against the sacred Host. But, O
<pb n='248'/><anchor id='Pg248'/>
divine Jesus, behold a still more grievous source of
sorrow to Thy Heart! It is not from Jews or heretics
that Thou receivest these insults, but from
Thine own chosen people, the people who profess
to believe in Thy real presence. Jesus is in our
midst, we know it, and yet He is the only One
Whom we forget, the only One Whom we treat with
careless indifference. It is thus that Christians respond
to the love of Our Lord; it is thus they repay
all His benefits. O sweet Jesus, pardon my base
ingratitude! Angels of heaven, you who know so
much better than I the full extent of the love of
Jesus' Heart towards me, praise Him for me, and
bless Him. O my God, grant that I may live poor,
unknown, and hidden in the Sacred Heart of Jesus,
my divine Master, forgotten and despised by creatures,
so that Thou mayest establish Thy reign of
love upon my nothingness. I hope that Thou wilt
mercifully hear my request, and grant it.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Sacred Heart of Jesus, my Lord! O noblest,
greatest, and most generous of all hearts! I
adore the divine impulses which led Thee, from the
moment of Thy conception, to love me who was
nothing, who would offend Thee in so many ways,
and so often misuse Thy graces. O holy Friend of
hearts, change my heart, and make it choose Thee
for its only Friend. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Eleventh Day. The Gratitude Due to the Heart of Jesus.</head>

<p>
If it were in my power, I would return Thee unceasing
acts of thanksgiving, and they would
<pb n='249'/><anchor id='Pg249'/>
still be too little to praise Thee for Thy boundless
love. I thank Thee and bless Thee for having
poured out Thy most precious blood to wash away
my sins. Thou didst reserve nothing for Thyself,
Thou didst become dry and barren as a grape trodden
in the wine-press. O ardent love, that is never extinguished!
would that I burned with this fire Thou
hast sent on the earth, and which Thou dost so fervently
desire to see kindled in souls! O most sweet
Jesus, open to me, I humbly beseech Thee, the door
of Thy Heart, the door of love and mercy. There
only will my troubled soul find sure refuge, my crimes
pity and forgiveness. To Thee alone, O Heart of
Jesus, I have recourse; assist Thou me. Thou hast
sought for me so painfully and so long, O my God,
when I strayed from Thy loving care. Behold me
here now; I give myself to Thee. With the help
of Thy grace I will be faithful to Thee, and will keep
my soul in spotless purity and deepest humility. O
Heart of my God, prevent me from ever abandoning
Thee again! May my heart be always open and
ready to admit Jesus, my well beloved. Let me
cling to Thy feet, like Magdalen, and give Thee love
for love.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Sacred Heart of Jesus, my Saviour, I adore
Thee, shedding tears over my sins. Would
that I had a fountain of tears in my heart, that I
might weep as I ought for the sorrows I have caused
Thee! Give me grace to bring forth worthy fruits
of penance. I adore Thee, O King of hearts, Who
art the delight of heaven and earth! Amen.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='250'/><anchor id='Pg250'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twelfth Day. In the Heart of Jesus is Found the Way, the Truth, and the Life.</head>

<p>
O my Jesus, I have never found truth save in Thee,
and aside from Thy paths I have never met
but vanity and wrong. If Thou dost not guide me in
all things, I shall stray about forever, and will quickly
perish through fatigue and want. Speak, then, O
Lord, speak to Thy servant, and grant him to comprehend
Thy wonderful love. Heart of my God,
give me to see that Thou art the only way in which
I must walk, if I wish to walk aright. What would
ever become of me if Thou wert not my life, principally
in the Adorable Sacrament of the Altar, where
Thou dwellest actually, corporally, and perpetually,
waiting to receive my homage and ever ready to give
me all graces and blessings. Oh, how boundless is
my need of Thee, my God; draw me unto Thee and
dispel the darkness which surrounds me. Deign to
accept, O Heart divine, this poor desire. My God,
Thou art my Father; have pity on me according to
the greatness of Thy mercy. I abandon myself to
Thee: do not reject me; make me love Thee and
nevermore separate Thyself from me.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O sacred Heart of Jesus, Thou art the heavenly
light! Thou dispellest the darkness of the
soul, and fillest it with sweetness. Thou art the
Heart of hearts, and worthy of the greatest love.
Thou art the source of that heavenly fire that enlightens
and burns. Inflame my heart with Thy divine
ardor, that it may burn with love of Thee to all eternity.
Amen.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='251'/><anchor id='Pg251'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirteenth Day. To the Heart of Jesus Alone I Turn.</head>

<p>
We are made for God alone, nor can we find
peace elsewhere save in God alone. But who
can kindle in us Thy love, if not Thou Thyself, O
Lord? Oh, then, sweet Heart of Jesus, I will not
cease to knock at the portal of Thy Heart, with tears
and true contrition! Let others seek the perishable
goods of this world. For my part I ask but Thee
alone. Forgive my past unfaithfulness, and unite me
so closely to Thee that I may never be able to forsake
Thee. Yes, my Saviour, I will leave creatures
and all earthly pleasures to run after Thee in the
Sacrament of Thy love. But I am ashamed to appear
before Thee, O my Jesus, I, who am so naked
and so devoid of all virtues. What then am I to do?
Am I to appear no more before Thee? Ah, no!
this would not please Thee. Thou dwellest in the
Sacrament, not only to reward Thy lovers, but also
to provide for the poor out of Thy riches. I adore
Thee, then, King of my heart! O Shepherd, loving
Thy sheep beyond all bounds, to this throne of love
I now approach, and having nothing else to give I
offer Thee my poor heart. Mercy, O Heart of God,
I implore Thee a thousand, thousand times, and pardon
for all my sins; grant that this may be the day
of my entire conversion, so that I may nevermore
cease to love Thee.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Heart of my Jesus, Thou knowest what is wanting
in me: Thou knowest that without Thee I
can do nothing. Thou knowest my weakness: have
<pb n='252'/><anchor id='Pg252'/>
pity on me, give me humility, purity of heart, love,
and conformity to Thy holy will, strength against my
bad habits, remission of my sins, and grace nevermore
to commit them. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fourteenth Day. The Heart of Jesus Asks for Our Hearts.</head>

<p>
<q>My child, give Me thy heart.</q> Oh, let me print
on my memory such a phrase of love! <q>My
child!</q> Oh, how sweet it sounds when uttered by
the lips of a God! He wishes to dwell in our hearts,
not for a certain time, but forever; not as a guest
only, but as its Master and its Lord. Jesus says the
heart He asks of me is mine: <q>Give Me thy heart,</q>
instead of claiming it as His right, as a matter of
strictest obligation, since all that I am and have
comes from Him. Oh, why should it be so difficult
for me to yield up my heart to that sweet Lord Who
so endearingly says, <q>My child, give Me thy heart</q>?
The name of friend being insufficient to tell all Thy
love, O dear Jesus, Thou dost employ the loving
name of child to sweetly compel me to grant Thy
fond request. Why is it, my Jesus, that Thou wishest
my love? Why dost Thou, by every means, try
to gain, by permission, that love which is Thine by
every right and title? Oh, how many years Thou
hast followed me, and I ever fled away from Thee!
How hardened my heart was! It is true I have often
returned to Thee for a little while, and Thou didst
welcome me, and gave me Thy very self as my food.
But too soon I fled away from Thee again. O my
dearest Jesus, what favors and benefits I have abused!
Pardon me, sweet Jesus: behold me at last here at
Thy feet, never to leave Thee more. Take my heart,
<pb n='253'/><anchor id='Pg253'/>
sweet Lord, and clasp it tightly to Thy Sacred Heart
even to the hour of my death; never let me stray
from Thee again.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Sacred Heart of Jesus, with my whole soul I
adore Thy impulses of goodness and mercy
towards sinners, the effects of which I have most
singularly experienced! Thy loving kindness is so
desirous of mercy, that it threatens to show no mercy
to him who is not merciful. And what mercy can I
exercise towards my neighbor? What can be compared
to those mercies I have received, and every
day receive from Thee? O Heart of Jesus, loving
fountain of mercy, teach me to know and worthily
imitate Thy mercy. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fifteenth Day. The Heart of Jesus at the Hour of Death.</head>

<p>
The life of man passes away as a shadow. Time
passes by as a swift flowing river, bearing on
its bosom, onward to the grave, old and young, rich
and poor, without any distinction. Oh, how happy
is he who has laid up treasures in heaven, who has
gathered for himself a hoard of merit before God.
Happy, a thousand times happy, is he who in that
dread hour can turn to God with all confidence, and
feel God present in his heart. O my sweet Jesus,
I will cling to the hope that Thou wilt forget all my
past iniquities, and remember only Thy love. O
merciful Jesus, who would not hope from Thee a
mercy without end? It is true Thou art a God of
justice and purity, and Thou seest in me sins beyond
<pb n='254'/><anchor id='Pg254'/>
compare. But yet can it be that the same God,
Who every instant of my life yearns to be near me,
Who begs so pleadingly for my heart: can it be that
He will condemn me to hell? Oh, no, tender
Heart of my Jesus! it will never be so if I am truly
sorry. My sweet Jesus will never abandon me, if
with a truly repentant heart, I have recourse to Him.
Why should I fear death when I look upon my God
agonizing in the throes of death? His death was to
help me in my dying hour, so that seeing the pain
that I have inflicted I might bear mine without complaint.
O sweet Heart of Jesus, I offer Thee my
death. I am willing to suffer all the pains Thou
wishest to send me. Let me suffer as much as Thou
pleasest, only let me die clasped close to Thy loving
Heart.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Sacred Heart of Jesus, I adore the admirable
impulses which made Thee all Thy life a
victim of love, and led Thee to consummate it by a
death of perfect love. Grant that, by Thy holy
grace, my heart may become a living sacrifice,
desiring only to be offered up and to offer up all
things for Thy greater glory. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Sixteenth Day. The Heart of Jesus for all Eternity.</head>

<p>
Eternity is Thine, O my God, and Thou givest
it to Thy elect, that they may love Thee without
any doubt or fear. Life is short: the last hour
may toll for me when I least expect it. O thou city
of God, when shall I behold thy beauty? Oh, the
grace and blessing of dying at peace with Thee, great
<pb n='255'/><anchor id='Pg255'/>
God; of closing our eyes in a holy death, to open
them amid the splendors of eternal joy! Meanwhile
Thou givest me a pledge of this bliss in the
admirable Sacrament of the Altar. Where can love
like Thine be found? Thou givest me Thy body
and blood, Thy soul and divinity, as a pledge of
eternal happiness. If then, Thou art wholly mine,
can I be otherwise than wholly Thine? A thousand
thanks to Thee, O my sweet Jesus, Who art so loving
to me. Thou didst call me to Thy service, but I
have responded weakly. I often disappointed and
displeased Thee, yet, O Heart of my God, Thou
art all mercy, and Thou wilt not turn away
Thy face from Thy poor child, who casts herself
down before Thee in contrition and shame. I
will clasp Thy feet and remain there until Thou
wilt once more say <q>thou art forgiven: go in
peace.</q> Thou art just, O Lord; nevertheless be
moved to pity me. I promise that I will always
serve and love Thee, and avoid anything that could
in any way separate me from Thee.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Sacred Heart of Jesus, I adore Thy death of
complete charity that placed Thee in the
grave. Let me enter into the wound of Thy Heart,
made by the lance, and may I die there for love
of Thee. O heart of Mary, Mother of the Heart of
Jesus, I have recourse to thee, that thou mayest
speak to me in its stead. The Heart of Jesus and
thine are but one, and what thou dost for me He
will approve.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='256'/><anchor id='Pg256'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Seventeenth Day. The Heart of Jesus Sorrowful unto Death.</head>

<p>
No one can be a true follower of Thee, O sweet
Jesus, who travels by any road save that of
Thy cross. For what trouble, what trial or affliction
can we meet with, which has not been suffered
by Thee? What were the agonies and pains Thy
Heart bore for me! I am poor, but am I poorer
than Thou, Who hadst not whereon to lay Thy head?
I may be reviled and persecuted, but what are my
persecutions in comparison to Thine, O my Jesus?
Thou wast abandoned in Thy hour of agony even by
Thy apostles, and betrayed into the hands of Thy
enemies by one whom Thou hadst made Thy friend
and companion. Thy whole life, O my Jesus, was
one unbroken series of crosses, borne sweetly and
patiently through love of me. Take courage, then,
my soul, from the example of our dear Lord, and
bear with noble strength all the trials and afflictions
that may be sent to thee. I will keep my eyes fixed
on Thee, cursed and buffeted, insulted and spat
upon, scourged and crowned with thorns, a heavy
cross laid upon Thy poor, mangled shoulders, and
Thy dreadful crucifixion&mdash;all for love of me. Surely
then, my God, the desire will grow in my heart to
be ready and willing to make some return to Thee.
Yet without Thy help, dear Jesus, I am utterly helpless
to bear the little trials Thou so lovingly dost
send me. Thou hast said clearly, <q>If any man will
come after Me, let him deny himself, and take up his
cross and follow Me.</q> And again, <q>Whosoever
doth not carry his cross and come after Me, cannot
be My disciple.</q> I understand then, dear Jesus,
<pb n='257'/><anchor id='Pg257'/>
that if I wish to claim the name of follower of Thee,
I must imitate Thee in carrying the cross. I throw
myself into Thy loving arms, my sweet Jesus; do
with me as Thou choosest, only give me strength and
courage to abide with Thee forever.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Sacred Heart of Jesus, I adore Thy impulses of
charity, which made Thee wish to fill my
heart and my soul with Thine, my spirit with Thy
spirit, and to feed my body with Thy sacred flesh.
I adore Thy divinity, concealed from my sight under
the symbols of Thy mystery of love, and I beseech
Thee, of Thy mercy, to use my soul, my mind, my
heart, and my body as a temple consecrated to Thy
honor. O Sacred Heart, I adore Thee as a victim
sacrificed by the ascendancy and power of its own
pure love. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Eighteenth Day. O Heart of Jesus, Thou Art All Mine and I Am All Thine.</head>

<p>
Heart of my God, Thou art for me light, hope,
heaven, eternity, all. I thank Thee, sweetest
Jesus, for all Thy generosity towards Thy unworthy
creature. I scarcely know myself when I feel Thee
so near my heart in holy communion. Oh, let that
love of Thine fill my heart; do not leave me till
Thou grantest me the comfort I hope and claim of
Thee. Lord, were I to ask of Thee temporal things,
Thou mightest well refuse them, but I ask that which
thou Thyself art pleased with&mdash;Thy holy love. I
cannot love Thee unless Thou grantest me power to
do so. Heart of my Jesus, where shall I find Thee if
<pb n='258'/><anchor id='Pg258'/>
not where Thou art really present&mdash;in the Adorable
Eucharist? Be Thou blessed a thousand times, my
Jesus, Who hast provided so sweet a source of comfort
for us poor exiles in this vale of tears. I behold
Magdalen approach Thee, her heart full of shame,
and I behold her leaving Thee, her heart full of peace
and love. I see Augustine filled with the malice of
sin, and all at once he becomes one of Thy brightest
saints. Is, then, Thy power shortened? No, no,
Thou never failest in coming to those who in lowliness
of heart cry to Thee for help. Let me, then, O
my sweet Jesus, show Thee all my sorrow and reveal
to Thee all my need. If I had loved Thee as warmly
as I have loved myself and my sins, I would have
been a saint long ago. Now once more I return to
Thee; let my hope never be confounded.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Be Thou blessed and praised forever, O Sacred
Heart of Jesus, hidden under the mystical veil
of the consecrated Host! Grant that I may worthily
praise Thy ardent love. Thou art all in all to the
saints in heaven. Give me Thy grace, that to me
also Thy Sacred Heart may become all things, and
that I may love and adore Thee in spirit and in
truth. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Nineteenth Day. God is Charity and He Who Lives in Charity Lives in God.</head>

<p>
The Heart of Jesus, a great saint has said, is the
abode of every virtue, the source of every
blessing; always filled with love for us, it is ever
ready to receive, to shelter, and to comfort us. O
<pb n='259'/><anchor id='Pg259'/>
you who are bending under the burden of sorrow or
want, or who are forever struggling against temptation,
fly to this sweet Heart; there you shall find that
God is love, that He is ever attentive, and ever prepared
to hear our slightest prayer. Oh, then, merciful
Heart of my Jesus, be with me everywhere,
even when I do not ask Thee, because then the peril
is much greater. Stretch out Thy hand to me and
draw me unto Thee. Thou hast told Magdalen that
much was forgiven her because she had loved much;
but was it not Thyself, sweet Jesus, that gave her
such love? Give me the same love, my Jesus, and
I shall love Thee as much. Ah, my Jesus, my heart
is no longer mine&mdash;I give it to Thee without reserve.
Let it live for Thee and Thee only; keep it, O
Lord, and guard it as Thine own. If the angels rejoice
over the returning of the repentant prodigal,
wilt Thou not find greater delight in that prodigal's
sincere desire of thanking Thee and loving Thee
more and more? I resolve that my heart will henceforward
bear Thee company by visiting Thee in Thy
tabernacles, and by fidelity to prayer.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Sacred Heart of Jesus, Who in a wonderful
Sacrament hast left us a memorial of Thy
Passion and a pledge of Thy love, grant us, I beseech
Thee, grace so to venerate the mysteries of Thy body
and blood, that we may ever feel within us the fruits of
Thy redemption, Who livest and reignest with the
Father, in the unity of the Holy Ghost, God forever
and ever. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='260'/><anchor id='Pg260'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twentieth Day. The Sacred Heart is a Most Patient Rewarder.</head>

<p>
Thou, O sweet Jesus, possessest all wealth and
bounty; we know that Thy riches are inexhaustible,
and that Thy desire to impart them in
Thy generosity is without limit and immeasurable.
Thy rewards are always far greater than our merits.
For a very slight service, Thou givest so amply that
the greatness and depth of Thy rewards will be equal
to their duration. Jesus, light of my life, shine on
my poor, wretched soul, and plant in it the precious
fruits of hatred of sin, deep contrition, and a firm,
lasting resolution of amendment. Make this poor
heart of mine gladly embrace and bear all the crosses
that Thou mayest send me as aids to the attainment
of my only end&mdash;that of abiding safe in Thy bright
home forever, sweet Jesus, with Thee. However
great the sufferings of this life may be, we can all
have recourse to God, and obtain strength and courage
in the thought that Thou, dear Lord, hast been
the first of all great sufferers, and that Thou wilt
never permit our troubles to exceed our limited
strength. Oh, how sweetly and lovingly dost Thou
receive the soul who, notwithstanding temptation
and trials, hast always served Thee faithfully, and
hast persevered to the end in Thy service! O my
sweet Love, aid me by Thy grace to bear all afflictions
with loving patience, so that I may one day receive
my everlasting reward.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Sacred Heart of Jesus, which from all time
wast inflamed with love for the glory of Thy
<pb n='261'/><anchor id='Pg261'/>
heavenly Father, and for our salvation, be Thou
praised and blessed forever! Kindle in our hearts
that divine fire Thou hast brought upon the earth,
and grant that we may never, on our side, oppose it,
but that by Thy holy grace it may ever burn there.
Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-first Day. The Heart of Jesus will Glorify us in Heaven.</head>

<p>
My Jesus, when will that moment come, when
having followed faithfully the path of crosses
and tribulations, I shall hear Thee say, <q>Well done,
good and faithful servant; because thou hast been
faithful over a few things, I shall place thee over
many. Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord.</q> Oh,
the joy the soul will feel when, on reaching heaven,
she shall find herself in the company of the angels
and saints; of Mary, her good Mother, and shall
recognize all her friends and relatives! What joy
will it not be to find one's self safe in port, free from
all danger, safe forever in the arms of God! The
happiness of heaven once insured is ours forever
more; it cannot be lost. There will be no more
sorrow nor trouble. Thou, O my sweet Jesus, wilt
wipe away all tears from our eyes, and with Thy
sweet voice, Thou wilt gladden our hearts. My
soul, enter into thyself, and reflect that thou wert
made for this glory if thou wilt only struggle to the
end. How foolish then is he, who for a brief passing
moment of pleasure, would fling away all claim
to that glory, which as St. Paul says, <q>Eye hath not
seen nor ear heard, neither hath it entered into the
heart of man what things God hath prepared for
them that love Him.</q> Take courage, my soul, and
<pb n='262'/><anchor id='Pg262'/>
do not murmur against those trifling tribulations,
which God in His mercy sends for our own true
weal. Most loving Jesus, give me grace to welcome
them, to embrace them eagerly, and to bear them according
to Thy good pleasure, and with sincere
resignation to Thy holy will. O my sweet Jesus,
grant that I may one day reach that joyful kingdom,
there to unite my voice to those of the ever blest
ones who, with ceaseless transports of joy, cry out
before Thy throne, Holy, holy, holy, Lord God of
hosts; heaven and earth are full of the glory of Thy
majesty.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Sacred Heart of Jesus, Victim of love, consecrated
Altar where all sacrifices are completed,
Thou art the glory of the Holy Trinity, the joy of
the angels and all the blessed, and the unfailing hope
of mortals. Be Thou the sole Master of the desires
and affections of my heart. O Heart of Jesus, that
lovest me so tenderly, make me love Thee fervently
in this world, so that I may love Thee eternally in
heaven. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-second Day. The Heart of Jesus Opened.</head>

<p>
Jesus, even after His death, allowed His sacred
side to be opened by a spear-thrust, in order
that we might see with what good-will He had
suffered, and how ardently He was inflamed with
love of us, and with desire for our salvation. This
opening of the side of Jesus, and the wonderful
shedding of blood and water, should fill us with a
sweet gladness, tempered with tears of sorrow for our
<pb n='263'/><anchor id='Pg263'/>
evil. The only time in which we wounded not His
Heart was that time in which we had not yet been
furnished by nature with that dangerous weapon, our
natural liberty, the origin of all our offences against
God. He could have deprived us of that free will
which has been the instrument by which we have
offended Him so often; but no, He comes unto us
with all love, disclosing to us all the sweetness of His
kind Heart. O my Saviour, Thou never ceasest to
renew Thy loving assaults! Thou didst wait on me,
yearning to enfold me in Thy divine embrace. O
peerless mercy of my Jesus' Heart, how can I ever
repay Thee? Heart of my Jesus, I shall endeavor
to prove my love for Thee by atoning as far as is in
my power for the many insults offered Thee. I
shall adore and love Thee to the utmost of my
power, I shall visit Thee, hidden as Thou art in the
Holy Sacrament of the Altar, and delight in holding
sweet converse with Thee. Thy side is open wide:
for whom, if not for poor sinners? O my sweet
Jesus, I can enter therein at will. In Thy Sacred
Heart I can find true sorrow, and contrition for all
my ingratitude and thanklessness. Oh, give my
heart steadiness and fidelity, that so these resolutions
may be effectual and practical.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Sacred Heart of Jesus, Who with incomparable
love didst vouchsafe to be crowned with
thorns, blindfolded, and struck with a reed, stripped
of Thy garments, nailed to the cross, and lifted up
thereon between two thieves: to have gall and vinegar
given Thee to drink, to be wounded with a
spear: I beseech Thee, O Sacred Heart, by all these
<pb n='264'/><anchor id='Pg264'/>
pains, and by Thy cross and death, to deliver me
from all that displeases Thee and in Thy mercy to
lead me whither Thou didst conduct the penitent
thief. Who livest and reignest with the Father and
the Holy Ghost, God, forever and ever. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-third Day. The Heart of Jesus the Source of All Happiness.</head>

<p>
There is one thing for which every heart craves,
after its own manner. We all long for
happiness&mdash;that is the one great desire that lives in
every soul. Hast Thou not, sweet Jesus, given us
that longing? And when Thou hast given so much
surely Thou wilt not refuse the accomplishment of
this desire also. Tell us, dear Lord, what souls are
happy, and we will learn from their example. Let
us look at the faces of those who serve Thee, and we
will see them growing brighter and brighter as they
draw near Thee, and they will tell us. When we
love Thee sincerely, then we shall be happy; when
we make Thy will the centre around which we move,
then we shall be happy; when Thy sweet Heart,
hidden under the sacramental species, is more
beautiful in our sight than all else, when we shape
and mould our lives according to the example of
that Sacred Heart, then peace and joy and happiness
will be ours. Teach us, sweet Heart of Jesus, from
Thy tabernacle, to serve Thee as Thou deservest, to
love Thee above all things, to work for Thee bravely
and generously, solely because of Thy love and not
for Thy gifts. Oh, what happiness may I not
promise myself if I but cling to Thy most generous
Heart, and use my best endeavors to faithfully serve,
<pb n='265'/><anchor id='Pg265'/>
adore, and love it. Inflame my heart, O Jesus,
with the fire of love with which Thine is ever inflamed.
With St. Ignatius I will say, <q>Jesus,
Lord, give to me Thy love and grace divine, and I
shall be rich enough.</q> Henceforth I accept the remainder
of my life and all its events, whether bitter
or sweet, from Thee; fixing my eyes on the tabernacle
alone, I will serve Thee because it is Thy will
I should do so. Help me, my Jesus, unto the end;
let me find no happiness but in Thee.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Sacred Heart of Jesus, how blessed is he whose
only hope and confidence is in Thee, Who
alone canst satisfy the yearnings of his heart! Thou
art indeed the light of our true heavenly land, the
delights of which surpass all that our human senses
can experience. Too late have I known Thee, O
ancient beauty! Too late have I loved Thee! But
if I have begun so late, make me now love Thee
perfectly. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-fourth Day. The Love of the Saints for the Heart of Jesus.</head>

<p>
What a contrast there is between my conduct
and that of Thy saints&mdash;between my indifference
and their love towards Thy sweet Heart in
the Blessed Sacrament! St. John Francis Regis,
when worn out with labor, would retire to the
church and would there find repose and rest at the
feet of Jesus. St. Francis Xavier used to pass the
night and take his repose in the sacristy, so as to be
near Jesus. Leopold, Duke of Austria, would dismount
from his horse, and falling on his knees would
<pb n='266'/><anchor id='Pg266'/>
adore his Saviour as the procession of the Blessed
Sacrament passed him by. It is true that I cannot,
nor does Jesus expect me to imitate these bright examples;
yet if I have the will and the desire I can
do much. Could I not often think of Jesus, lonely
in the Blessed Sacrament, waiting and watching for
me, His poor creature, to visit Him? Could I not,
like St. Alphonsus, visit the Blessed Sacrament every
day? Could I not, when I bend my knee before
Him, say <q>Blessed and praised be the Adorable Sacrament
of the Altar?</q> Could I not refrain from
useless talk in church? Could I not easily assist at
Benediction as often as it takes place in church? All
this I could do, O loving Heart of Jesus, if I only
cared for Thee, if the love of Thee had taken full
possession of my soul. But I am weak, O Jesus,
and ever prone to thwart Thy adorable intentions;
still I am comforted by the thought that Thou wilt
aid and sustain me. This urges me to pray, in fullest
hope of obtaining all things conducive to my sanctification
here, and my salvation hereafter. Perfect
my desires, I implore Thee, and let the example of
Thy saints stimulate me to love Thee in the Blessed
Sacrament more and more.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Sacred Heart of Jesus, Thou art the source of
the joy and holiness of the saints, and from
Thy fulness we receive all that we can have or wish
for in heaven and on earth. Through Thy charity,
and through that of the heart of Thy holy Mother, I
beseech Thee to bestow on me the sweet peace of
charity, and to make my heart ever yielding and
obedient to the impulses of Thy divine grace. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='267'/><anchor id='Pg267'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-fifth Day. The Agony of the Heart of Jesus.</head>

<p>
The Heart of Jesus is filled with terror at the
sight of the torments that await Him. He
seems to forget what He is and why He came into
this world. He prostrates Himself on the ground,
and beseeches His Father to remove from Him, if
possible, the chalice of suffering which He sees in
store for Him. His agony is so intense that He is
covered with a sweat of blood, which oozes out in
great drops and trickles down to the ground. O my
soul, hast thou ever beheld a sight like this? Only
Our Lord Jesus Christ, Who has loved man, has
suffered like this. O my Jesus, my sweet Jesus,
Thou hast willingly suffered the divine vengeance
which should have fallen on me. What more couldst
Thou have done for me? Surely if our hearts are
human, if there is one fibre of pity or gratitude in
our souls, the memory of Thy agony would never be
obliterated. By Thy presence on the altar, Thou
has made me acknowledge the enormity of my sins.
Thou hast compelled me to own that my sins have,
as far as they could, reacted every scene in Thy
Passion. And yet do I linger under the shadow of
Thy tabernacle? Do I weep over the wounds I
have made in Thy body? Oh, no, dear Jesus! I
have forgotten Thee, and like the Jews, with Thy
blood on my hands, I have eaten and made merry.
O tender Heart of Jesus, let it be so no more. Let
my heart be filled with sorrow on account of my
iniquities. Let my repentance be like Magdalen's;
then I shall be happy and I shall be saved, because
Thou wilt never despise a truly contrite heart. O
<pb n='268'/><anchor id='Pg268'/>
loving Jesus, make my heart so just, so upright, and
so conformable to Thy Heart, that between Thee
and me there may be nothing to offend Thee.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
I adore Thee, Sacred Heart of Jesus, suffering in
the Garden of Olives. It is I who deserve all the
pains Thou endurest, for I am the cause of them.
O Sacred Heart of Jesus, through Thy sorrow my
soul finds consolation, and by Thy agony my death
is made sweet. Give me a contrite and humble
heart, that can participate in Thy pains and sorrows.
Teach me how to offer up the prayer of suffering
and patience. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-sixth Day. The Heart of Jesus in the Tabernacle.</head>

<p>
The home of Jesus is the tabernacle. Our dear
Lord and Saviour dwells among the poor as
well as among the rich. He lives in the noisy,
crowded city, as well as in the lonely, quiet country;
in magnificent cathedrals, as well as in the poorest
churches and the most dilapidated chapels. There
He remains, that all may be able to come to His
dwelling-place, to lay before Him all their wants, to
converse with Him and to obtain from Him all the
graces they need, whether for soul or body. Can we
imagine anything more loving or generous? The soul
that truly loves Jesus need not go far to find Him.
He can be found in every church in which the Blessed
Sacrament is kept, and there the King of kings, Our
Lord and Saviour, is content to remain, shut up in a
tabernacle of wood, with no one to keep Him company.
Well has He been called a <q>Prisoner of
<pb n='269'/><anchor id='Pg269'/>
love.</q> O sweet Heart of Jesus, because Thou art
always with us, we forget Thee; because we are accustomed
to Thy continual presence we heed it no
more. Because Thou never leavest us, we grow tired
of Thee and value Thee not. O loving Heart of
Jesus, what ingratitude! Yet surely it ought not to
be difficult to visit Thee and to converse with Thee.
How many afflictions, how many troubles of mind and
body, are there to tell Thee; how many graces
and blessings to supplicate; how many sins and transgressions
are there to weep for; how many acts of
love and thanksgiving to be poured forth for all Thy
numberless mercies; how many petitions ought to
ascend for the conversion of those who neither know
nor love Thee! O compassionate Jesus, grant that we
may ever remember Thee in Thy loving Sacrament,
and let Thy dear words ever sound in our ears:
<q>Come to Me, all you that labor and are heavily
burdened, and I will refresh you.</q>
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
I adore Thee, O Sacred Heart of Jesus, the joy,
the satisfaction, and the supreme Ruler of all
hearts. With the same loving kindness that led Thee
to take the hand of St. Thomas, and carry it Thyself
into Thy side, make my heart seek no joy but in
Thee, O Sacred Heart. May my heart be ever subject
to Thy gentle sway, for out of Thee it will find
but labor and tribulation, and all the consequences
of its unhappy bondage. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-seventh Day. The Heart of Jesus is My Hope.</head>

<p>
In the Heart of Jesus we live, and move, and have
our being. O Jesus, Thy care of me is so wise
<pb n='270'/><anchor id='Pg270'/>
and gentle, that nothing can harm me so long as I
leave myself in Thy hands. I know the trials which
Thou sendest me are irksome, that my passions goad
me on to rise up against Thee, and the demon also
whispers in my ear, <q>Thou hast Jesus no longer, He
has abandoned thee for aye.</q> But no, never will I
lose my hope in Thee; I shall not be affrighted; remembering
the loving lessons Thy Heart has taught
me, I will fear no evils. Too powerful in the strength,
my God, that comes to me from the assurance that
Thou, sweet Love, rulest my life and art a sharer in
all my sorrow. No, I will not fear, for Thou art with
me. With Jesus, my God, by my side, my hope
acquires new strength. I have with me a Father Who
loves me and Who is ever intent on blessing me.
My eyes behold Thee not, yet through the wondrous
agency of Thy grace, Thou art near to me at every
place and at every moment. Be Thou then, sweet
Jesus, my comforter, my delight, my crown. My
senses will murmur, it is true, my passions will arise
in rebellion, but fortified by Thy grace and strength,
I will fight against sin with a fortitude invincible.
Aid me then, O divine Heart, for Thou art my only
hope. Let me rest and repose on Thy bosom and
forget my wanderings. Let me learn that there and
there only, I am in my true home, where alone I can
be happy.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most compassionate Jesus! Thou alone art our
salvation, our life and our resurrection. We
implore Thee, therefore, do not forsake us in our
needs and afflictions, but by the agony of Thy most
Sacred Heart and by the sorrows of Thy immaculate
<pb n='271'/><anchor id='Pg271'/>
Mother, succor Thy servants whom Thou hast redeemed
with Thy most precious blood. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-eighth Day. All Graces Come from the Heart of Jesus.</head>

<p>
All virtues are found in the Heart of Jesus. His
Heart is the furnace of divine love, always
burning with the fire of the Holy Spirit, purifying,
kindling, and transforming into Himself all who yield
themselves to Him, or who wish to be His. <q>My
heart is ready, O God, my heart is ready.</q> I will
extol Thee, O God, my King, and I will bless Thy
name forever. Since all good flows from Thy most
sweet Heart, O Jesus, I should not attribute to myself
anything of the good I may have done, nor regard
with self-satisfaction the gifts of God, but ascribe all
to Him, and return all to their original source, which
is the Heart of Jesus. Place all your sins in the
Heart of Jesus. Through that Heart you should ask
for grace and pardon, and praise and bless Him for
all His mercies. I acknowledge, O my God, Thy
supreme dominion over me, and all created things.
I bow down before Thy infinite sanctity, perfection
and excellence, which entitle Thee to the fullest love,
service, and praise of all Thy creatures. In Thy
presence I protest my detestation of my countless
sins, with which I have outraged Thy love, and deeply
repentant, I implore of Thee a full pardon. Open
wide Thy Heart of love, and let stream on my heart
all the full sympathy of Thine. I know Thou canst
not trust me, as I am ever prone to break my word
and betray Thee. Hence I need all Thy care, all
Thy grace to persevere in the good resolutions Thou
formest in my soul. O sweet Virgin Mother of my
<pb n='272'/><anchor id='Pg272'/>
Jesus, help me to praise and bless the Lord for all
the benefits He has bestowed on me, and for all those
He will grant for all eternity.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
My sweet Jesus, I give Thee my soul, my body,
and my will, resigning myself in all and forever
to Thy most holy grace. Do with me what Thou
pleasest. Make me ever love Thee in this life and
in the next; do this, and then dispose of me and of
everything I have as Thou wilt. Tell me what Thou
askest of me; for with Thy grace I will execute it, be
it what it may. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-ninth Day. The Heart of Jesus the Source of Sanctity.</head>

<p>
This adorable Heart offers to us at once the
motive, the example, and the grace of holiness.
What could be more of an incentive to keep ourselves
from sin, than the remembrance of Our Lord's Sacred
Heart, which was saddened by sin to such an excess as
to cause His sacred body to sweat drops of blood? What
more calculated to inspire us with zeal for our sanctification
than the study of this Heart, which calls us
to it with so much love, and by so many sacrifices?
St. Bernardin of Sienna speaks of this divine Heart
as a furnace of the most ardent love, capable of setting
the whole world on fire. We find in the Heart
of Jesus the grace of holiness, for as Blessed Margaret
Mary says, <q>Nothing is better calculated to raise the
soul in a very short time to the loftiest degree of
holiness than devotion to this dear Heart.</q> She also
says that those who labor for the salvation of souls
will find in this devotion the gift of touching the
<pb n='273'/><anchor id='Pg273'/>
hardest heart. It is because this divine Heart is the
throne whereon mercy is seated, that invocations made
to it are never in vain. It is the strong tower against
which all temptations are powerless. It is the source
of all benedictions. Oh, we should love with all our
strength the amiable Heart of Jesus, no matter what
it may cost us! We should sanctify ourselves at any
cost, and to do this we should love and burn incessantly
in the furnace of the pure love of God, which
will purify and sanctify us at one and the same
time. Let us, then, abandon ourselves into the
hands of God, and we shall soon see that He will
employ every means to make us perfect. He who
loves perfectly makes no resistance. My Jesus, take
unto Thee my heart; I give myself wholly to Thee.
May I ever be scrupulously faithful and unflinchingly
constant in loving Thee, this day and every day of
my whole life.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O beloved One of my soul, would that I had
always loved Thee! Alas, there was a time
when I not only did not love Thee, but despised Thy
grace and Thy love. I am consoled by the sorrow
which I feel for it, and I hope for pardon through
Thy promise to forgive him that repents of his sins.
To Thee, O my Saviour, do I turn all my affections;
help me, through the merits of Thy Passion, to love
Thee with my whole strength. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirtieth Day. The Heart of Jesus in Holy Communion.</head>

<p>
Oh, how shall I dare to approach Thy heavenly
banquet, that mystery which is the greatest
and most stupendous work of even Thy almighty
<pb n='274'/><anchor id='Pg274'/>
love? that banquet of which the noblest and purest
spirits are in no sense truly worthy? Yet I feel myself
comforted, when I read in Thy Gospel that Thou
sendest forth Thy servants in quest of the poor, the
blind, the lame, and the wretched, to invite them to
Thy bounteous feast divine. O goodness of God!
O Heart of Jesus, truly loving art Thou, and truly
worthy of all love. Not only willingly, but eagerly
do I accept Thy sweet and merciful invitation. What
a consolation to be allowed to enjoy the loving
embraces of the divine Spouse of my soul! As the
hart panteth after the fountains of water, so my soul
panteth after Thee, O God. Oh, come then, Heart
of my Jesus, come to Thy poor servant. I desire to
tell Thee all my needs, to protest to Thee my love,
to clasp Thee to me. Come, and as Thou enterest
my heart, let me hear Thy sweet, consoling words,
<q>Peace be to thee.</q> Oh, fortify me with Thy light
and strength, that I may no more lose Thee or drive
Thee from me. But as long as I live, I am in danger&mdash;my
resolution may become weak and I may betray
Thee as I have done before. O Love unbounded, do
Thou help me; from Thee and from Thy Heart, I
hope all good. Let not that hope grow weak at any
time, nor waver for a single instant. This I implore
of Thee through the same love which has made Thee
remain with us day and night, and which has induced
Thee to give Thyself for our food in the Blessed
Sacrament.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Remember, O most loving Jesus, that it is unheard
of that any one ever had recourse to Thy
Sacred Heart, implored its help without obtaining
<pb n='275'/><anchor id='Pg275'/>
relief. Confiding in Thy infinite goodness and mercy
we cast ourselves before Thee, and do most humbly
supplicate Thee to hear our prayers, and to take upon
Thyself the care of our salvation. Show, divine Jesus,
that Thou hast the Heart of the best of Fathers.
Shelter us therein, and let it not be said that we have
perished, where no one ever found but mercy, grace
and salvation. Amen.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Litany of the Sacred Heart of Jesus.</head>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>For Private Devotion Only.</hi>)
</p>

<lg>
<l>Lord, have mercy on us.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Christ, have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Lord, have mercy on us.</l>
<l>Christ, hear us.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Christ, graciously hear us.</hi></l>
<l>God the Father of heaven, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>God the Son, Redeemer of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>God the Holy Ghost, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Trinity one God, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Heart of Jesus, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Heart of Jesus, hypostatically united with the Word of God, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Heart of Jesus, sanctuary of the divinity, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Heart of Jesus, temple of the Holy Trinity, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Heart of Jesus, abyss of wisdom, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Heart of Jesus, ocean of goodness, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Heart of Jesus, throne of mercy, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Heart of Jesus, treasure inexhaustible, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Heart of Jesus, whose plenitude is diffused in us, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Heart of Jesus, our peace and reconciliation, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Heart of Jesus, model of all virtues, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Heart of Jesus, infinitely amiable and most worthy of being
loved, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Heart of Jesus, fountain of living water springing up to
eternal life, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Heart of Jesus, love of the celestial Father, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Heart of Jesus, atonement for our sins, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Heart of Jesus, full of bitterness for our sakes, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Heart of Jesus, sad unto death in the Garden, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<pb n='276'/><anchor id='Pg276'/>
<l>Heart of Jesus, wrung with ignominy, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Heart of Jesus, wounded from love, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Heart of Jesus, pierced with a lance, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Heart of Jesus, drained of Thy blood on the cross, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Heart of Jesus, broken with grief on account of our sins, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Heart of Jesus, still outraged by ungrateful men in the Most
Holy Sacrament of love, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Heart of Jesus, refuge of sinners, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Heart of Jesus, strength of the weak, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Heart of Jesus, comfort of the afflicted, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Heart of Jesus, perseverance of the just, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Heart of Jesus, salvation of those who hope in Thee, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Heart of Jesus, hope of those who die in Thee, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Heart of Jesus, sweet support of Thy adorers, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Heart of Jesus, delight of all the saints, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Heart of Jesus, help in our afflictions, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Lamb of God, Who takest away the sins of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Spare us, O Jesus!</hi></l>
<l>Lamb of God, Who takest away the sins of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Hear us, O Jesus!</hi></l>
<l>Lamb of God, Who takest away the sins of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us, O Jesus!</hi></l>
<l>Christ, hear us.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Christ, graciously hear us.</hi></l>
</lg>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Jesus, meek and humble of Heart.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Make my heart like unto Thine.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Let Us Pray.</hi>
</p>

<p>
O Lord, almighty Father, eternal God, cast Thine eyes
upon Thy beloved Son; accept, we beseech Thee, the
satisfaction He offers Thee; be appeased by His divine homage,
and mercifully protect us, through the same Christ, Thy Son,
Who, being God, livest and reignest with Thee in the unity of
the Holy Ghost. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Mass in Union with the Sacred Heart of Jesus.</head>

<p>
Introibo.
</p>

<p>
O divine Jesus, Thou art the Victim laden with
all the iniquities of the world: Thou didst
<pb n='277'/><anchor id='Pg277'/>
shed bitter tears for them; Thou didst expiate them
by the most dreadful torments, and by the most cruel
of deaths. I come to mingle my tears with Thine;
I confess to Thee, in the presence of Mary, ever
Virgin, and of all the saints, that I have sinned exceedingly;
that it is my ingratitude that pierced Thy
Heart, and put Thee to a cruel death. O God, my
Saviour, through Thy tears, through Thy agony in the
Garden of Olives, through Thy precious blood and the
wound in Thy Sacred Heart, I beseech Thee to pardon
me, and to grant me the remission of all my
sins. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Introit.
</p>

<p>
Let us adore the Heart of Jesus, which has loved
us so much; let us prostrate ourselves before
Him, and bewail the sins of which we have been
guilty. Grant us, O Lord, a contrite and humble
heart; let the homage of our adoration be as acceptable
to Thee as if we offered Thee thousands of victims.
Amen.
</p>

<p>
Kyrie.
</p>

<p>
The days of propitiation have arisen upon me;
I may call Thee by Thy name, O God of
majesty; I may call Thee my Saviour and my Father.
Thou art present on our altars, that Thou mayest
heap Thy favors upon us. I will draw nigh, therefore,
with confidence unto the throne of mercy, and
I will say unto Thee: Lord, be merciful to me, a
sinner. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Gloria.
</p>

<p>
Glory be to God, Whose justice is satisfied by the
perpetual sacrifice of so noble a Victim. Peace
and happiness on earth to men of good-will, who
<pb n='278'/><anchor id='Pg278'/>
behold a God annihilating Himself daily to save them,
and to feed them with His own substance. I praise
Thee, I bless Thee, I adore Thee, O Lord, and I
stand amazed at the sight of the wonders of Thy love.
Shall I suffer them to be of no avail to me through the
evil dispositions of my heart? Shall I reject that
peace which Thou offerest me? Shall I not labor to
acquire that good-will by which it comes? O my God,
allay the strife which is so often excited in my heart,
making the flesh rebel against the spirit. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Collect.
</p>

<p>
O Divine Jesus, inexhaustible fountain of all good
things, open unto us, we beseech Thee, the
interior of Thy Heart: that, having entered by pious
meditation into this august sanctuary of divine love,
we may fix forever there our hearts, as the place
wherein is found the treasure, rest and happiness of
holy souls; Who livest and reignest forever and ever.
Amen.
</p>

<p>
Epistle.
</p>

<p>
<q>Wisdom hath built herself a house, she hath
hewed her out seven pillars. She hath slain
her victims, mingled her wine, and set forth her
table. She hath sent her maids to invite to the tower,
and to the walls of the city: Whosoever is a little
one, let him come to me. And to the unwise she said:
Come, eat my bread, and drink the wine which I have
mingled for you. Forsake childishness, and live, and
walk by the ways of prudence</q> (Prov. ix. 1-6).
</p>

<p>
Gospel.
</p>

<p>
Praise, honor, and glory be to Thee, O Jesus,
Saviour of the world! Who, thirsting for the
<pb n='279'/><anchor id='Pg279'/>
salvation of souls, didst endure for them so much
labor and fatigue; Who for their sakes didst pass
entire nights in prayer, and didst weary Thyself going
from city to city, from village to village. Grant, I
implore Thee, that Thy love may also make me
prompt and apt in every good work, and that I may
never grow tepid in Thy service. Help me to know
and practise the holy counsels contained in Thy
Gospel, and grant above all that I may penetrate the
divine wisdom contained in Thy words: <q>If any
man will come after Me, let him take up his cross and
follow Me.</q>
</p>

<p>
Credo.
</p>

<p>
I believe, O my God, the truths which Thou
hast revealed to Thy Church. I desire to live
and die in this faith. Grant, O Lord, that my life
may be conformable to my faith; that my faith may
be animated by good works; that I may never be
ashamed to declare myself a Catholic, and may constantly
maintain the interests of Thy holy religion.
O holy Roman Catholic Church, the persecutions
which thou hast endured, far from weakening my
faith, do but strengthen it the more, since thy divine
Spouse foretold them. Sweet Heart of Jesus, draw
close the bonds that bind me to Thy holy Church;
put into my heart a spirit of perfect obedience to my
lawful pastors. In its bosom I became Thy child,
and in its bosom I wish to live and die. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Offertory.
</p>

<p>
O Jesus, we draw near with confidence to Thy
sweet Heart: cast upon us, we beseech Thee,
a look of pity, and make our hearts a perpetual offering
<pb n='280'/><anchor id='Pg280'/>
consecrated to Thy glory. O Heart of infinite
goodness, I offer Thee my heart; vouchsafe to change
it, to bless and sanctify it. O my soul, how Jesus
Christ hath loved us! At what a price He hath
redeemed us! Not with gold, nor with riches, but by
the voluntary shedding of His blood. He hath
sacrificed Himself for us: let us then live only for
Him; let us sacrifice ourselves together with Him. But,
O my God, my heart is not full enough of love and
fervor to be an offering worthy of Thee. What then
shall I give Thee? I will give Thee Thy Son. That
Son, the most worthy object of Thy complacency,
will supply my inability. O Lord, look not on me,
but on this divine offering. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Preface.
</p>

<p>
Lift up, O Lord, do Thou Thyself lift up my heart
to Thee. Take from it all unholy thoughts,
all earthly affections. Lift it wholly up to heaven,
where Thy Heart is worthily adored, and to the altar,
where it is about to manifest itself to me. Through
Thy most kind Heart, I beseech Thee to draw my
heart wholly into Thine. Bury it in Thine, so that
it may be so absorbed into and united to Thy Heart,
that I may no longer have any heart but Thine. Suffer
me, then, to join my feeble voice with the voices
of all the heavenly spirits, and in union with them
to say, in transports of joy and admiration: Holy,
holy, holy is the Heart of Jesus! the worthy object
of the divine complacency, and of the homage of
heaven and earth! The whole earth is full of Thy
glory; let my heart be full also of its love. Amen.
</p>

<pb n='281'/><anchor id='Pg281'/>

<p>
Canon.
</p>

<p>
O God infinitely holy, if my sins provoke Thee,
and make me hateful in Thy sight, look upon
the Lamb without spot, Who is going to immolate
Himself to take away the sins of the world, and beholding
His merits, remember not my ingratitude.
Remember only that I have been graciously admitted
into the Heart of Thy divine Son. This
Heart infinitely merciful prayed for me on Calvary,
and will soon renew the sacrifice of itself for me. O
my sweet Jesus, how many times have I sinned against
Thee? How many times have I despised the interior
graces Thou hast bestowed upon me? Oh, how earnestly
I now desire a perfect contrition, equal to the
greatness of the love that I have offended. But,
since it is impossible for my sorrow to equal Thy
goodness towards me, I offer the loving contrition of
the Heart of my Lord Jesus Christ to supply my
insufficiency. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Consecration.
</p>

<p>
O my soul, behold thy God, thy Saviour, thy
Judge! My God, I adore Thee! My Saviour,
I love Thee! My sovereign Judge, I am sorry
for ever having offended Thee! O Heart of my
Jesus, Whom I believe to be here really present,
suffer me not to be separated from Thee during life.
Grant that my heart may ever find repose in Thine,
that I may die in Thy love, and thus go to contemplate
and praise Thee for all eternity. Amen.
</p>

<pb n='282'/><anchor id='Pg282'/>

<p>
After The Consecration.
</p>

<p>
The heavens are opened: the Holy of holies has
descended on the earth: this altar is now the
throne where dwells the majesty of the Most High;
the angels surround Him, and with the most lively
homage of reverence and love, make reparation to
Him for the contempt, the neglect, and the indifference
of men. O divine Lord, I lay all my
petitions at Thy feet; vouchsafe to present them
to Thy Father. I pray for the conversion of
sinners, the perseverance of the just, and the triumph
of our holy religion. O Jesus, Who didst
die for all men, bring back to the fold of Thy
Church those who are separated from it. Enlighten
all infidels and heretics, bless the efforts of those who
labor to convert them. Have pity on the souls of
the faithful departed; remit to them their debts, and
grant them a place of refreshment, light, and peace.
I beseech Thee particularly to have compassion on
(<hi rend='italic'>name them</hi>).
</p>

<p>
Pater Noster.
</p>

<p>
O my Father, if it be permitted that a guilty child
call by so tender a name a God Whom he
hath so often offended, grant that I may ever labor
for the glory of Thy holy name, that in all things I
may do Thy will, and sigh unceasingly for Thy
heavenly kingdom. Let the forgiveness which Thou
didst grant Thy murderers be my example in forgiving
those who have injured me: give me superiors,
both spiritual and temporal, that love Thee, and
friends that serve Thee faithfully; and if ever I expose
myself to sin, do Thou deliver me from the
<pb n='283'/><anchor id='Pg283'/>
danger, that I may never outrage Thy loving Heart.
Amen.
</p>

<p>
Agnus Dei.
</p>

<p>
Lamb of God, Who takest away the sins of the
world! Pure and spotless Victim, Who
alone canst satisfy the justice of an offended God,
vouchsafe to make me a partaker of the merits of
Thy sacrifice! What lessons of humility, meekness,
charity and patience dost Thou give me! Impress
these virtues upon my heart, that it may be to Thee a
pleasant habitation, wherein Thou mayest repose, as
in an abode of peace. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Communion.
</p>

<p>
O Christ, mighty Lord, most sweet Jesus, my
strength and my refuge, defender of my soul,
God of my salvation! O Thou in Whom I believe
and hope, Thou Whom I love, behold I draw near to
Thy throne of grace, I knock at the door of Thy
mercy, and beseech Thee to open it for me. Thou
Who didst promise entrance into paradise to the
penitent thief, bring me, through the most holy
wound of Thy side, to the centre of Thy breast, and
let me drink at the fountain of wisdom that flows
from Thy Heart. O God of infinite mercy, receive
me, enclose me, hide me in the bosom of Thy mercy.
Amen.
</p>

<p>
After Communion.
</p>

<p>
I have found Him Whom my soul loveth: I possess
Him, and will nevermore leave Him.
What have I to desire in heaven, and what can I
henceforth love upon earth, but Thee, O my God,
the God of my heart! O most loving Jesus, were it
<pb n='284'/><anchor id='Pg284'/>
possible, I would fain praise Thee as perfectly, love
Thee as ardently, serve Thee as faithfully, please
Thee as completely, and contribute to Thy glory as
efficiently as do all angels and men collectively and
as each one does in particular. O most merciful
Lord, God of holiness, vouchsafe to cleanse my
heart from all self-love and all sinful affections.
Make it a pleasing abode for Thee. Let it become
like unto Thy Heart, that Thou mayest delight to
dwell in it forever. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Benediction.
</p>

<p>
O loving Heart of Jesus, I will not depart till
Thou hast blessed me. Bless me in the
name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the
Holy Ghost! and let Thy blessing descend upon
all those for whom I ought to pray. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Last Gospel.
</p>

<p>
O eternal Word, Who wast made man that Thou
mightest make men the children of God, I
thank Thee for this unspeakable grace. How great
is the blessing I enjoy, not only of hearing the
name, but of being indeed the child of God!
Grant, O my sweet Jesus, that I may preserve this
blessed title, by faithfully imitating Thy Sacred
Heart, and showing myself always filled with love
for Thy holy law. If I remain faithful Thou assurest
me that I shall be co-heir with Thee, and shall enjoy
the happiness which Thou hast purchased for us with
Thy precious blood: and this I hope to obtain
through Thy infinite mercy. Amen.
</p>

<pb n='285'/><anchor id='Pg285'/>

<p>
After Mass.
</p>

<lg>
<l>Soul of Christ, sanctify me:</l>
<l>Body of Christ, save me:</l>
<l>Blood of Christ, inebriate me:</l>
<l>Water from the side of Christ, wash me:</l>
<l>Passion of Christ, strengthen me:</l>
<l>O good Jesus, hear me:</l>
<l>Within Thy wounds hide me:</l>
<l>Permit me not to be separated from Thee.</l>
<l>From the malignant enemy defend me:</l>
<l>In the hour of my death call me,</l>
<l>And bid me come to Thee;</l>
<l>That, with Thy saints, I may praise Thee</l>
<l>Forever and ever. Amen.</l>
</lg>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='286'/><anchor id='Pg286'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>July. The Precious Blood.</head>

<p>
Our Lord shed His blood for our ransom, to buy us from
the slavery of the devil and of sin. Not one drop of
blood did He reserve for Himself; He shed it all most generously
in our behalf. He was the Lamb of God without blemish,
Who, according to God's designs for the redemption of mankind,
was to be sacrificed. His blood was to be shed on the cross;
from five great wounds it was to flow upon the earth, like the
sacrifices of the Old Testament. These sufferings were precious
in the sight of God, the Father, and gained for us the remission
of our sins, the ransom from the slavery of Satan. Every drop
of this blood was all powerful, because it represented the sacrifice
of a God-man.
</p>

<p>
How precious are those drops of blood in the chalice
on the altar at Mass, when the sacred blood of Christ is offered
daily to God for our salvation! How we desire to drink
that blood, that we may have life in us, for the Lord has
said, <q>Unless you drink of My blood, you shall not have life
in you.</q> How this blood flowed in the Garden of Gethsemani,
at the scourging, at the crowning with thorns, and at the
crucifixion! Precious blood of my Jesus, I adore thee; pour
thyself over my soul that I may be washed in the blood of the
Lamb.
</p>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Considerations and Prayers for Every Day.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>First Day.</head>

<p>
Unhappy mankind was bound in the slavery and
tyranny of Satan, in the shadow of death,
without being able to free itself. Jesus, the Victor
over death and hell, came into the world to destroy
<pb n='287'/><anchor id='Pg287'/>
the kingdom of the prince of darkness, and to set
the human race free, so that it might look up
once more to God the Father. This great work, so
beneficial to our souls, was effected by the shedding
of the blood of Christ at the circumcision, and the
completion of the sacrifice when He shed the last
drop of His blood on the cross. In this sacred
blood we have received the power to co-operate with
the graces of God, which are to free us; for certainly
we must do something on our part to keep this
newly-acquired privilege of children of God. Let
us, then, feel in our hearts the necessity of a devotion
to the precious blood of Our Lord, the cause of
our salvation; and continue during this month of
July to adore it, and to conceive an unbounded confidence
in the almighty power of its intercession.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Eternal Father, I offer Thee the precious blood
of Jesus in satisfaction for my sins, and for
the wants of holy Church. Blessed be the precious
blood of Jesus, which renders bearable the thorns
of earth, redeems our souls, purifies them from their
iniquities, and prepares for them an eternal crown.
Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Second Day.</head>

<p>
When Constantine had become a Christian, he
found himself confronted by many enemies
of his kingdom, and of our holy religion. He was
told to have confidence in the cross, because in this
sign <q>Thou shalt conquer.</q> We, too, will conquer
by this sacred symbol of our salvation, stained
with the blood of Our Lord; we, too, have the enemies
<pb n='288'/><anchor id='Pg288'/>
of our liberty and religion before us; we have
to fight against the world, that is full of deceits and
vanities; we have to make war against the flesh,
that rises frequently against the spirit; we have to
fight against the prince of darkness, that goes about
like a roaring lion seeking to tear us to pieces. Yes,
my dear Jesus, I see that my enemies have great
power and activity; give me also the power and activity
to oppose my will and intellect against them,
so that I may conquer. Thou didst come upon the
earth for the purpose of giving me this victory; let
me not be conquered and led back into slavery.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Eternal Father, I offer Thee the precious blood,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Third Day.</head>

<p>
We come to understand the value of our soul
from the price which was paid for its ransom.
When you wish to purchase a precious gem, you
judge of its value from its cost. We must judge of
the value of our souls, then, by the same standard.
It cost the precious blood of Jesus Christ to purchase
our souls. Christ would have given it for the possession
of only one soul; for even one soul is the likeness
of God. The price that is asked for its possession
is nothing less than the life and blood of a God-man.
Think, then, seriously, that all the goods of
the world, its riches, honors, and comforts, are not
precious enough to buy your soul; that if you gain
these things by the loss of your soul you have gained
nothing; that you have been deceived and cheated,
and that you got the worst of the bargain. <q>For what
<pb n='289'/><anchor id='Pg289'/>
doth it profit a man, to gain the whole world and to
lose his own soul?</q> You are sprinkled with the
blood of the Lamb of God. Even one drop of this
blood would be sufficient to redeem mankind, it is
so precious in the sight of God the Father, to Whom
it is offered.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Eternal Father, I offer Thee the precious blood,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fourth Day.</head>

<p>
O my soul, where will the thorns, the nails, the cross,
the death and blood of your own martyrdom
be, when you are asked how you co-operated with the
saving power of the blood of Christ? when you have
to show what you have done on your part? Jesus
suffered so much for us, and we do nothing for His
love. Are you going to heaven without prayer,
without mortification of the flesh and your passions,
without the practise of virtue? The salvation of
Christ, instead of being a help to you, will become
the source of your damnation. The Israelites, crossing
the dried bed of the Red Sea in their flight from
the Egyptians, found their liberation, while the
Egyptians met with their destruction. So also we
shall be happily found and brought to heaven if we
apply to our souls the blood of Christ, while we will
find ourselves condemned to eternal perdition if we
abuse that adorable gift. O my Jesus, let me appreciate
the great gift of Thy precious blood.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Eternal Father, I offer Thee the precious blood,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='290'/><anchor id='Pg290'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fifth Day.</head>

<p>
Since Almighty God has done so much for us
through the sufferings of His divine Son, what
are our obligations for all that Christ endured? We
should think very much during this month on the
great mercy of God. We have already meditated
on the Passion of Christ during Lent, and on other
occasions have thought of the shedding of the blood
of Christ; but this month, especially, we will try to
make a particular devotion of our dear Lord's precious
blood, and engrave holy sentiments regarding it
deeply on our souls. In everything that concerns
the spiritual life we feel the power of the blood of
Christ; and when we are thoroughly imbued with the
importance of the precious value of the sacred blood,
and how great were the sufferings of Our Lord, we
will begin to have an idea of how stupendous an undertaking
our redemption was. Our Lord will visit
with special blessings those who love and honor His
sacred blood. You will feel a new life from this
sacred blood coursing through your veins, and circulating
in your heart and brain. It will give a life of
spiritual energy.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Eternal Father, I offer Thee the precious blood,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Sixth Day.</head>

<p>
We ought to imitate the virtues of the Heart of
Jesus, from which His sacred blood flowed;
and this imitation will produce in us a perfect purity.
For what purpose has the sacred blood been offered
<pb n='291'/><anchor id='Pg291'/>
but to cleanse us from sin and to bring us back to
the love of God? It preserves purity in our soul,
because it gives us the grace of loving God, and
gives us strength to say, <q>I feel within me the
energy of the divine blood; and I am ready to make
every sacrifice with joy, in return for the one perfect
and all-sufficient sacrifice which has been made for
me.</q> The nearer we are to the Sacred Heart, and
to the influences of the sacred blood of Christ, the
fountain of all grace, the more holy we become.
Let us then love the virtues which shine so conspicuously
in the Heart of Jesus. Let us be generous
with God and gentle and indulgent with others, as a
reflection of the charity of the Heart of Jesus.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Eternal Father, I offer Thee the precious blood,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Seventh Day.</head>

<p>
The precious blood obtains the forgiveness of our
sins. Then with what great eagerness should
we seek for this pardon! In what an unhappy state
is our soul when stained by sin! By sin death came
into the world and into our heart. We were robbed
of the grace of God, lost His friendship, and came
under the dominion of Satan, which is worse than
death, and of which it is true that <q>it were better
we had not been born.</q> In all this wreck and misfortune
there is but one object to which we can turn,
and that is the sacred blood of Christ as it flows from
His wounds, and which He offers to the Almighty
to condone for our faults, and to restore us to the
grace of God. We do not get immunity from corporal
<pb n='292'/><anchor id='Pg292'/>
death, which they say mankind would have enjoyed
had it not fallen by the sin of our first parents.
We are still afflicted by frailty, ignorance, and the
inordinate demands of passion; but we have received
the greatest gift, which cannot be surpassed
by any other: the gift of the sacred blood of Christ.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Eternal Father, I offer Thee the precious blood,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Eighth Day.</head>

<p>
The only thing that is asked of us is a horror of
sin. We renounced Satan, sin, and hell at
our baptism, but we are only too apt to forget the
promises made then. During this month we will
recall to ourselves our duty, and impress it deeply
upon our souls; we will avoid sin and look upon it
with horror, for it is a most loathsome object, hateful
to God, and consequently it ought to be hateful
to us. Sin was punished in the angels, in Adam,
and even in ourselves; we must convince ourselves
of this truth. St. Paul says, <q>Jesus has redeemed
us with His blood,</q> and for the destruction of sin
has given inexhaustible treasures of grace. O my
dear Jesus, when I remember my sins, I would wish
to have the courage to ask Thee that I might die at
Thy feet in punishment for them; but at least make
me really understand that I belong to God, to the
angels, that I have renounced Satan, his demons
and darkness, and that I must remain faithful to the
part I have chosen.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Eternal Father, I offer Thee the precious blood,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='293'/><anchor id='Pg293'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ninth Day.</head>

<p>
If we trust in the efficacy of the precious blood,
we are sure to remain in the state of redemption,
even though severe temptations assail us. The
devil will surely attack us; but let us not be dismayed,
because we are fortified with supernatural strength by
the merits of the blood of Jesus. These temptations
will even be a source of glory to us, for St. James
says, <q>Blessed is the man that endureth temptation:
for when he hath been proved, he shall receive the
crown of life.</q>&mdash;Jas. i. 12. The devil trembles
before a soul that is protected by Christ; he flies because
he knows that there he will find no human
weakness. Remember the Jewish Passover, which
was instituted in commemoration of the plague in
Egypt: every first-born son was to die on that night,
unless the blood of the Lamb was sprinkled on the
door-posts; so also will the devil pass the house of
our soul, when he finds the blood of the Lamb of
God used as a protection. Yes, my dear Jesus, I
know that when I am washed in Thy divine blood in
the Sacrament of Penance, or when strengthened by
the drinking of Thy blood in holy communion, the
tempter flies from me because he knows he will be
defeated.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Eternal Father, I offer Thee the precious blood,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Tenth Day.</head>

<p>
Sin brings great sorrow and misfortune to a soul.
As sin brought all trouble into the world, so
it repeats itself in our souls. Have we not heard of
<pb n='294'/><anchor id='Pg294'/>
the wages of sin? No sooner have we revolted against
the law of God than all the unruly passions of our
souls are let loose. Incessant demands are made on
our ingenuity to seek for occasions of gratifying our
appetites; ambition, vanity, and pride spur us on to
every excess. You can well imagine that in such a
soul there is no peace nor happiness. God rises in
anger against the sinner, the world even strikes us
down; we have the sign of Cain on our forehead,
and all nature is at enmity with us. Where can you
find peace for your soul but in Jesus, the Prince of
peace?&mdash;Who takes us up and leads us to God, where
the past is forgotten and innocence reigns once more
in our hearts. Let us preserve this peace by a virtuous
life, and by observing the Commandments of God. Let
us also keep peace with our neighbor; let us love him
because he is our brother, redeemed by the precious
blood of Christ.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Eternal Father, I offer Thee the precious blood,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Eleventh Day.</head>

<p>
If our heart is to preserve the true, interior peace
of God, we must approach the Lord Jesus with
the cross, and with the blood that falls on us beneath
the cross we must wash away the stains of sin. St.
Francisca of Rome had a vision in which she saw
many chains issuing from the wounds of Our Lord's
sacred body, and these went out to a multitude of souls
and bound them to the Redeemer. She understood
that in this attachment was the peace, the happiness,
and the victory of many who otherwise would have
perished. Let us look for the particular chain intended
<pb n='295'/><anchor id='Pg295'/>
for us, as we can thereby bind ourselves to the
contemplation of the Passion, in which we shall find
peace and comfort as long as we remain faithful.
Heavenly Father, I offer to Thee, for Thy glory and
my salvation, the blood of Jesus; let me appreciate
its value in its fulness. Thou, my Jesus, seest the
many dangers by which I am surrounded, and as Thou
didst at one time command the winds to cease and
the waves of the stormy sea to be calm, so watch
over me that I may find peace in Thy service and be
attached to Thee out of love for that peace which
Thou alone canst give.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Eternal Father, I offer Thee the precious blood,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twelfth Day.</head>

<p>
Our Lord had a great desire to gain our souls.
He made it easy for us to approach His sacred
wounds, from whence the blood flowed. He
instituted the Blessed Sacrament for our nourishment;
speaking of this sacred blood, He said:
<q>Drink ye all of this; this is My blood; and if any
thirst let him come to Me and I will give him to
drink.</q> The sacraments are nothing but channels
by which the blood of Christ is conveyed to our
souls. It was the Passion and sufferings of Christ
that gave the sacraments their efficacy. The water
of Baptism becomes, as it were, the blood of Christ;
the penitential accusation is carried to the presence
of the Lord Himself, and by the mouth of the priest
He speaks the absolution; the blood of Christ is in
reality in the Holy Eucharist. Confirmation makes
us strong Christians, because the blood of Christ is
<pb n='296'/><anchor id='Pg296'/>
there, and the Spirit of God comes to complete the
work of Jesus. What is Extreme Unction but the
application of the blood of Christ to the sick, that
they may become strong?
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Eternal Father, I offer Thee the precious blood,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirteenth Day.</head>

<p>
St. Bernard says of the blood of Christ: <q>that it
is like a trumpet that calls for mercy; it is a
voice that speaks more strongly than Abel's, not for
vengeance but for forgiveness. This blood binds
the hands of God's justice.</q> We may then hope that
the voice of this adorable blood will be raised in our
behalf, as it was used to promise the penitent thief
eternal happiness. It was with sincere love that
Jesus Christ cried to the heavenly Father for us. He
came to this world that His blood might always call
to God for mercy. His blood was spilled over the
surface of the earth, that all mankind might drink of
its benefits. Satiated by the precious blood we will
really hate sin, we will triumph over our evil passions,
we will substitute virtues in their stead. Jesus
is the fountain of all graces; it is He that takes such
a great interest in us that whatever we do in His
name will add to our glory, so that though we may
have been poor and despised creatures, by the blood
of Christ we have been ennobled and made heirs of
the kingdom of God.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Eternal Father, I offer Thee the precious blood,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='297'/><anchor id='Pg297'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fourteenth Day.</head>

<p>
When Our Lord died on the cross one of the
soldiers pierced His side, to make sure that
He was dead. It was a real death, for we know
that blood and water poured from that wound. Here
we see the water of Baptism applied to our souls; in
Baptism we are born again, we become children of
God, our sins are forgiven and we have a right to
the reward of heaven. We are no longer outcasts,
nor an accursed race; we have become children of
God. And why? Because we have become the
brothers of Jesus Christ, Who is a child of God, the
Son of God; it was this Child that made us children
too, because from His sacred side on the cross He
poured out water and blood over the human race;
the curse was taken away from the race of mankind,
and they may now go to heaven if they will. But
have we preserved this life of grace, this new life of
a supernatural order? No, indeed. There is not a
human creature on the earth that has been cleansed
by the blood of Christ, but has fallen back, and rebelled
against God.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Eternal Father, I offer Thee the precious blood,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fifteenth Day.</head>

<p>
Man's life is a struggle for good from the beginning
to the end. We are taken out of
wickedness by Baptism, and we are frequently redeemed
by penance. We need a sacrament that will
give us perseverance. <q>Be thou faithful unto
<pb n='298'/><anchor id='Pg298'/>
death,</q> is the watchword that St. John cries out to
the bishop in the Apocalypse, <q>and I will give thee
the crown of life.</q> We are never sure of ourselves;
even the sharpest intellect will not be able to
say whether he be worthy of God's wrath or of
God's love. Therefore Jesus Christ has applied the
merits of His sacred blood to the Sacrament of Confirmation,
by which we are to be made strong, by
which human weakness is to be taken away. After
receiving this sacrament what noble works we are
capable of! In the olden ages martyrs died for
Christ; mothers saw their children martyred before
their eyes, all for the love of Jesus, strengthened
by this sacrament. People give up the world and
persevere in the heroic practice of virtue by the
grace of the precious blood of Jesus.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Eternal Father, I offer Thee the precious blood,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Sixteenth Day.</head>

<p>
How comes it that although we are endowed with
virtue from on high, nevertheless we sometimes
make the blood of Christ of no avail to us?
By Confirmation we ought to be perfect Christians,
and still we are far from being such. The reason of
our weakness, is that we are addicted to the things
of this world, and we are very much inclined to
follow the demands of our passions. We do not
place implicit confidence in the efficacy of the
precious blood; we do not desire to be cured of our
maladies; we do not pray to be freed from our evil
inclinations. What great strength did not the saints
<pb n='299'/><anchor id='Pg299'/>
gather from the precious blood! How strong they
were against the devil! How mortified their lives!
How sincere in the service of God&mdash;and all through
the power of that sacred blood. How firm the
martyrs stood in their testimony for the faith! how
many Christians persevere in doing good by means
of the graces derived from the adoration of the
precious blood! If we would be as they were, we
must turn to the suffering Jesus, and adjure Him, by
the blood that He shed, to sustain us also in our
struggle against the foes of our salvation.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Eternal Father, I offer Thee the precious blood,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Seventeenth Day.</head>

<p>
In nothing is the beauty of the Church more
noticeable than in her love of devotions.
The devotion to the precious blood becomes manifest
on many occasions. She has established the
feast of the precious blood, and others more or less
intimately united to this sacred practice of piety.
Full of divine instincts, her worship grows with all
the exuberance of a tropical plant, covering herself
with verdure and blossom; she makes devotions of
joys and of sorrows; none of the old blossoms fall
off&mdash;on the contrary new varieties make their
appearance. The Church is more beautiful now than
she was three centuries ago, and three centuries from
the present time new glories will have developed
themselves. Every century has given rise to new devotions,
according to the needs of the Church.
Sometimes a holy man looks at the incarnation in a
<pb n='300'/><anchor id='Pg300'/>
new light, and a new devotion springs up. The devotion
of the Holy Childhood has developed itself
into devotion to the Infant of Prague, or has taken a
more practical turn in the society of the Holy Childhood
for the redemption of heathen children.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Eternal Father, I offer Thee the precious blood,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Eighteenth Day.</head>

<p>
Who were the great worshippers of the precious
blood? St. Paul wrote in his epistles most
beautifully of the precious blood, and he may be
said to be the author of this devotion. It was in
this devotion that the power of his apostolate consisted.
St. Chrysostom, the great preacher of the
East, spoke most touchingly of the precious blood,
and of the sufferings of Our Lord. St. Augustine,
after his conversion, attributed all his improvement
in the supernatural life to the love that Jesus bore
him. St. Gertrude's writings are full of the most
beautiful sentiments concerning the precious blood.
In modern times, St. Catharine of Sienna, the
prophetess of the precious blood, singled out this
devotion with a special love, with reference to the
needs of her time, to which, in her judgment, sufficient
importance had not been given. We read of
Frances of the Mother of God, a Carmelite, that
these words of the Apocalypse were deeply imprinted
in her mind: <q>He hath loved us, and washed
away our sins in His blood.</q> Our Lord said to her
interiorly, <q>I have shed My blood for your sins,
and now I come in holy communion to wash away
<pb n='301'/><anchor id='Pg301'/>
the stains which remain.</q> When she had received
Our Lord she saw her soul all covered with blood.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Eternal Father, I offer Thee the precious blood,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Nineteenth Day.</head>

<p>
In the life of the Venerable Ann of Jesus, a companion
of St. Teresa, we read that at communion
her mouth was sensibly filled with very sweet
blood, which flowed from the Host. St. Clare of
Rimini's holy and mysterious thirst was appeased
only by the blood in the Host. Marcella Benci
used to serve St. Philip of Neri's Mass, and frequently
saw the chalice full of blood. Margaret
Beanne the Carmelite saw habitually the blood of
Jesus in the souls of men; they were so beautified
by it that she could not bear to hear any one censured
because of the reverence she felt even for the
souls of the wicked, for she saw them covered with
the blood of Jesus. Sister Benedict of Egersheim
after communion used to feel sensibly Our Lord's
blood flowing as a torrent down into the abyss of her
soul, and burning away all the remnants of sin, leaving
her a most pure vessel of sanctity. Such are
some of the examples of the thoughts and experience
of the saints in communing with the precious blood,
which made them what they were, friends of God
and intimate with Jesus Christ, the Spouse of their
souls.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Eternal Father, I offer Thee the precious blood,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='302'/><anchor id='Pg302'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twentieth Day.</head>

<p>
There is no surer sign of the growth of a special
devotion than when the Church erects a
confraternity in its honor. These confraternities
keep the devotion alive, direct it, and embody all
its practices. There is the archconfraternity of
the Precious Blood in Rome, and this confraternity
forms the keystone of all the confraternities throughout
the world. Popes have enriched it with many
indulgences, and have given to the Passionists and
to the missionaries of the precious blood special
blessings. Among the people of Spain we notice
particularly the rise and continuance of societies devoted
to the honoring of the precious blood. Leo
XIII. enriched the societies with many indulgences.
Pope Pius IX., of glorious memory, authorized the
wearing of the red scapular. When he returned
from exile he instituted a new feast distinct from the
one celebrated in Lent. So many favors have been
granted to it that we receive the impression that it is
the special devotion of the Holy See.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Eternal Father, I offer Thee the precious blood,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-first Day.</head>

<p>
The devotion to the precious blood is especially
opportune for our days&mdash;these days of infidelity
and of atheism. It shows that the redemption is
due to the efficacy of the precious blood. It throws
out into strong light the most intimate relation of the
incarnation; it meets the false spirituality which we
<pb n='303'/><anchor id='Pg303'/>
conceive of the sacred humanity of Christ. It is a
revelation of the character of God, as well as of the
work of Jesus; it brings into our heart the love
of the kingdom of God, and thus we begin again
to have faith, the right faith as it is given us by
the Church. We are aroused to the love of Jesus,
and feel sensibly that He is still in the Church, and
that His sacred blood is even now performing wonders.
O my soul, what unthought-of greatness is in
the precious blood of Jesus! how charming is the
devotion, and how many souls labor under its benign
influence! Let me, O my sweet Jesus, reverence
that precious blood, and apply it to my soul for an
increase of faith in God and His revelations, in hope
for a happy future, and in love for Christ crucified.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Eternal Father, I offer Thee the precious blood,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-second Day.</head>

<p>
The devotion of the precious blood very materially
supports the devotion to the Passion of Our
Lord. It furnishes a point of view from which we
may regard each separate suffering, each separate
wound, and mould it into one universal consideration.
It is thus a unity of the devotion to the Passion,
as well as a variety of it, besides being in itself
an additional devotion. The precious blood brings
vividness to the meditation on the Passion. There
is no greater devotion than meditation on the Passion;
the saints have always made it the help and
consolation of their progress. What is consideration
of the precious blood but a contemplation of the Passion
under another aspect? We bring the entire
<pb n='304'/><anchor id='Pg304'/>
Passion under the head of one mystery, and still we
preserve all the details, so that the Passion and the
precious blood are the favorite contemplations of all
devout Christians. O dear Jesus crucified, make me
love the cross; make me desire to stand beneath the
cross, in order to receive on my soul one drop of that
precious blood which is being poured out for my redemption.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Eternal Father, I offer Thee the precious blood,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-third Day.</head>

<p>
The closest alliance, however, is between the precious
blood and the Sacred Heart. The Heart
of Jesus is the centre of our affection; it is the source
from which the blood of Christ is drawn, the wealth
of the Sacred Heart. It is the blood that warms that
Heart and makes it beat for our sakes, so that every
pulsation is an act of love for the human race. The
Heart of Jesus teaches us to hate sin; the precious
blood so copiously shed for our redemption inculcates
the hatred of sin. We hate sin purely, manfully, and
strongly; we do penance, we mortify ourselves, we
mourn over our sins and the sins of others. All this
is taught by the sacred blood of Our Lord; it is surely
a valuable lesson which we ought to learn, since the
instruction is given in so forcible a manner, and is
so frequently inculcated.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Eternal Father, I offer Thee the precious blood,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='305'/><anchor id='Pg305'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-fourth Day.</head>

<p>
There is a virtue which, in the language of the
theologians of the Church, is called the angelic
virtue: a virtue most pleasing to God. It is
chastity. The precious blood makes us chaste according
to our state of life; it makes those pure and
virginal who practise this devotion and gives them
the grace to preserve purity and to persevere in it.
This virtue renders us very pleasing to almighty
God, Who loves pure souls. <q>Blessed are the pure
of heart, for they shall see God,</q> and chastity is an
expression of the purity of the soul. The devil
makes the greatest efforts to deprive us of this great
treasure. The greatest and most frequent temptation
which we have to endure is certainly that against
purity. Our body seems to be full of impurity, our
imaginations crowded with thoughts of a defiling
character. The virtue of purity endears us to Mary,
the purest of virgins; she loves those whom God regards
with special favor, and to whom He has promised
the particular privilege of contemplating Him
for all eternity.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Eternal Father, I offer Thee the precious blood,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-fifth Day.</head>

<p>
How beautiful a virtue is true humility! We love
and admire it in others, but we ourselves are
far from possessing it. Humility is the foundation
on which all other virtues are built. Pride is a most
hateful vice in the sight of God, for He would rather
<pb n='306'/><anchor id='Pg306'/>
receive a humble sinner than a saint inclined to pride.
God resists the proud, and gives His grace to the
humble. The devotion of the precious blood will
secure humility. Jesus shed His blood amid the
greatest humiliations. In the Garden of Olives,
bowed to the earth, He poured forth His blood in
an agony of shame and horror over the sins of men;
He was beaten like a slave in the court of Pilate; the
blood poured from His face, wounded by blows and
defiled by spittle, and from His head crowned with
thorns. It stained the streets of Jerusalem on His
way to Calvary; it flowed to the foot of the cross,
as He hung and died between two malefactors, where
He was considered the most abject of men. Let us
learn the lesson of humility from the death of Christ.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Eternal Father, I offer Thee the precious blood,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-sixth Day.</head>

<p>
Zeal for souls, zeal for the glory of God, was the
motive that induced the Son of God to come
down from heaven to suffer and die on the cross.
Might not we, also, do something for the glory of
God and the good of souls, if we had a little zeal towards
that end? The apostles learned zeal from the
Passion of Our Lord. When the Lord had died on
the cross, they became inflamed with zeal and
worked in an apostolic manner that souls might be
brought to the kingdom of God; suffering became
precious in their sight, because they endured it for
the good of humanity. We that profess the love of
the precious blood must also have zeal for the salvation
<pb n='307'/><anchor id='Pg307'/>
of souls. What can we do? We can pray; we
can offer up our petitions incessantly for some particular
individual until we are heard; we can surround
people by such influences that their minds will
be changed and brought back to God. But frequently
we are inactive and inattentive to these
means which God has given us; we are not filled
with zeal for furthering the devotion to Christ's
precious blood, and for the salvation of souls.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Eternal Father, I offer Thee the precious blood,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-seventh Day.</head>

<p>
As we may do much good by a prudent zeal for
the living, we can still more benefit the souls
in purgatory by the application of the merits of the
precious blood. Those souls are already in the
hands of God, undergoing a purification to fit them
to enter heaven. They can do nothing for themselves;
they must patiently endure the just punishment
that is meted out to them. But the Church
teaches us that we can help them, and we are encouraged
to use the means which God has placed in
our hands. Those who are in purgatory will surely
go to heaven, but we can shorten their purification
by prayer. Our supplications for the souls in purgatory
may be even more productive of good than
praying for the living, for these may resist the goodness
of God and render themselves unworthy of further
graces, while the souls in purgatory, being the
friends of God, will readily receive the benefit of
our prayers. Purgatory is an effect of sin, and sin
<pb n='308'/><anchor id='Pg308'/>
and its effects are effaced by the blood of Christ.
The Apostle has said that Jesus loved us, and has
given His blood to wash us.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Eternal Father, I offer Thee the precious blood,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-eighth Day.</head>

<p>
The sacred wounds of Our Lord are those abundant
springs from which flow the kindness
and charity of God. Many saints have had revelations
and visions of this in their ecstatic prayers.
St. Gertrude saw streams of blood issuing from the
wounds of Our Lord and flowing like rivers through
the Church, rendering her fruitful in many heroic
virtues. How can we have any merit unless we
receive it from Our Lord? for without Him we can
do nothing. To do something meritorious, then,
we should have recourse to Our Lord in prayer.
Our prayers would fall to the ground and be without
result, unless helped by the pleading of the
precious blood; our works of mortification would
be useless, our penance vain attempts for forgiveness,
unless the precious blood made them efficacious.
As the sun gives light to the world,
enlightening and fructifying it, so the precious
blood shines on our actions and makes them glow
with a supernatural merit. There are some virtues
which we may practise to a certain degree, but how
imperfect are the best intentions, without God's love
as a motive.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Eternal Father, I offer Thee the precious blood,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='309'/><anchor id='Pg309'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-ninth Day.</head>

<p>
Remember that perseverance is the great grace
which we are all striving for. It is not a
grace that we can merit at any one time, for it is
only a continuation of fidelity. It is a very important
grace; what does it profit to have gained all
possible graces, and to be filled with consolation,
when in the end we shall not be counted among the
elect of God? He is, of course, interested in your
eternal salvation&mdash;in other words, your final perseverance.
But we are living in a state of probation
here; it is not possible, except in some special case
of extraordinary grace, that we could be possibly in
any other state than doubt as regards the future. It
is natural for those who are on trial to fear that they
will not succeed; there are so many a great deal
better than we are that when we compare their excellence
with our weak efforts to do right, we feel
so inferior that we are afraid of being rejected.
Hence it is that we are told to work out our salvation
with fear and trembling, lest we may not reach
the end for which we have been created.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Eternal Father, I offer Thee the precious blood,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirtieth Day.</head>

<p>
Final perseverance can be obtained only through
our humble faithfulness to God and continued
prayers. When we pray to the Lord, and beg of
Him by His precious blood to give us the grace of
perseverance, or when we go to God the Father,
<pb n='310'/><anchor id='Pg310'/>
and offer Him the sacred blood of Jesus as a sacrifice,
that He may give us extraordinary grace to enable
us to continue in His service, He is not obliged
to give it, but He will, just as a friend who wishes
to keep you attached to him gives you many presents
and favors. We must also turn to Mary in this
doubtful struggle for eternal happiness. Mary, the
Mother of Jesus, has much to do with our salvation;
we should not despise her help. She supplied, as
you may say, the precious blood to Our Lord, by
feeding Him with the milk of her breast. Or, as St.
Bernard tells us, mixing the milk of the Mother with
the blood of the Son, in order to prepare for us a
most delicious drink. Mary ceases not to work in
heaven for the salvation of souls and for the conversion
of poor sinners.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Eternal Father, I offer Thee the precious blood,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirty-first Day.</head>

<p>
St. Alphonsus, in speaking of the precious blood,
says: <q>So, then, my Jesus, in order to save my
soul, Thou hast prepared a bath of Thine own blood
wherein to cleanse it from the filth of its sins. If.
then, our souls have been bought by Thy blood, <q>For
you are bought with a great price</q> (1 Cor. vi. 20),
it is a sign that Thou lovest them much; and as
Thou dost love them, let us pray thus to Thee: <q>We
therefore pray Thee to help Thy servants, whom
Thou hast redeemed with Thy precious blood.</q> It
is true that by my sins I have separated myself from
Thee, and have knowingly lost Thee. But remember,
<pb n='311'/><anchor id='Pg311'/>
my Jesus, that Thou hast bought me with Thy
blood. Ah, may this blood not have been given in
vain for me, which was shed with so much grief and
so much love.</q> We ought to read these words over
and over again, until they penetrate our souls with
that devotion to the precious blood which this great
saint possessed, filling all our daily lives with a heavenly
sweetness.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Eternal Father, I offer Thee the precious blood,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Mass in Honor of the Precious Blood.</head>

<p>
Introit.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
When the priest goes up to the altar to say Mass, think
that the Lord is about to celebrate the Last Supper,
during which He instituted the Holy Eucharist, and gave His
flesh as food, and His blood as drink, to all the disciples present.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
With a confident heart I am about to hear this
holy Mass, to offer this holy sacrifice with the
priest. I offer it to the Blessed Trinity, as the
greatest means to obtain spiritual benefits for myself
and those for whom I intend to pray, that we all
may receive what is most needful for our body, but
especially for our soul. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Confiteor.
</p>

<p>
I know, O my God, that I am unworthy to be
admitted so closely to the Holy of holies, or
to be here during the celebration of the sacred
mysteries: I am unworthy on account of my many
sins. O my God, I beg pardon for them, and I am
<pb n='312'/><anchor id='Pg312'/>
sure that I will receive forgiveness. I resolve to live
a good life so that, purified, I may look up to the
sacred mountain, where resides the God Who renews
my youth. Yes, I have sinned against Thee, and
against heaven. I am not worthy to be called Thy
child. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Kyrie.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
When the priest goes up to the altar and kisses it, remember
the infamous kiss of Judas, think of your own infidelities,
and cry out nine times with the priest: Lord, have mercy on
us, Christ, have mercy on us. With your whole heart and soul
join the choirs of angels in singing a hymn of praise to the
Almighty, for all the mercies He has shown us by the sufferings
and death of His divine Son. Offer up these sufferings for the
benefit of the Church, for peace and harmony among nations,
that the world may by the death of Christ enjoy a peace that will
conduce to the acknowledgment of God's dominion over all
mankind, that it may enjoy the benefit of the incarnation and
death of the Lord.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
Offertory.
</p>

<p>
I offer to Thee, O my God, with the priest, the
bread and wine as did Our Lord, Who wished
us to do it in commemoration of Him. I offer to Thee
the pains which He endured at the bitter crowning,
when the thorns were pressed deep into His sacred
head, and the precious blood flowed from the
wounds thus made, covering His whole face and disfiguring
it so that it no longer resembled a human
countenance. I offer to Thee those sighs and secret
prayers which He offered, to atone for my wilful distractions
in prayer, my waywardness in thought, my
unbridled imagination, for my pride and disobedience,
for all my errors, and for the errors of heretics
and schismatics, that Thou mayest send them the
grace of conversion. Amen.
</p>

<pb n='313'/><anchor id='Pg313'/>

<p>
Gospel.
</p>

<p>
Remember, O God, the sufferings of the Lord when
He was dragged before Caiphas and Pontius
Pilate. I offer myself to the guidance of Thy providence;
do with me what Thou wilt for Thy glory.
May Thy holy Gospel be always a consolation to me
in all my troubles, and a guide to my conduct, so
that, leading a good Christian life during the remainder
of my stay in this world, I may direct my
steps to heaven. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Credo.
</p>

<p>
I believe in the teachings of the Church; with a
full acceptance I have accepted Christianity,
let me remain faithful to it under all circumstances.
Come to the assistance of my unbelief, that I may
firmly profess my faith openly before the world. I
believe, especially, in the efficacy of the Passion and
the glory of the cross, a humiliation to the people of
the world, but a source of comfort and salvation to
me. I believe in Jesus Christ, the Son of God, Who
taught me the articles of the creed. I believe in the
Church which He has established. I believe in the
forgiveness of my sins through the merits of the Passion
and blood of the Lord. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Lavabo.
</p>

<p>
Remember, O God, for my sake, the washing
of the hands of Pilate, as a sign of the innocence
of the Lamb of God and His freedom from
sin. Pilate washed his hands as a sign that he was
not guilty of the murder of Christ, but I must acknowledge
that I have condemned Jesus to death by my
<pb n='314'/><anchor id='Pg314'/>
sinfulness. My declaration of justice will not suffice,
but do Thou declare me pardoned. O my God,
let me hear the words, <q>Thy sins are forgiven thee.</q>
Amen.
</p>

<p>
Orate Fratres.
</p>

<p>
I call to mind the scene when Pilate presented
Jesus to the Jewish rabble, all covered with
blood, with a crown of thorns on His head, His sacred
body torn with the lashes of the scourging, and enveloped
in a purple mantle. Pilate says, <q>Behold
the man!</q> But the Jews cry out, and oh, how their
cruel words sound in my ears, <q>Crucify Him, crucify
Him</q>! Look upon our Jesus, O God, as He
stands there, claiming the kindness of some good
heart, and through His precious blood have mercy on
us. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Canon.
</p>

<p>
I will now, O my God, with the angels, bow
low before Thee, and cry Holy, holy, holy,
God of hosts! The angels continually cry thus to
Thee in heaven. I ought to be engaged here on
earth in the same occupation. But let me continue
to meditate on the sacred Passion of Thy Son and
how He carried His cross. I offer Thee the way of
the cross which He made, and all the suffering which
He endured during it. He fell three times to the
ground, crushed by its weight; stains of blood from
His recent scourging marked His path. I see the
Cyrenean unwilling to carry the cross for Jesus.
Veronica wipes His face, and the women of Jerusalem
weep over the cruelty that the Lord had to endure.
I offer to Thee the bitter meeting of Mary and her
<pb n='315'/><anchor id='Pg315'/>
beloved Son. May I be encouraged, through Christ's
Passion, to take the cross on my own shoulders, and
carry it with joy. I offer Thee the painful carrying
of the cross for all poor Christians who have heavy
crosses to bear, and who are bearing them patiently;
for the sick, the dying, the poor orphan child, the
patient mother who labors, with resignation to Thy
holy will, for those dependent on her, and for all
who have to suffer on this earth. Let me understand,
O my Jesus, the valuable lesson that I deserve to
suffer on account of my many sins. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Elevation Of The Host And Chalice.
</p>

<p>
I believe, my Jesus, that Thou art now present on
this altar; that this bread is now Thy body,
and this wine is now Thy blood. Now, O my God,
Thy beloved Son has arrived at Calvary. His garments
are torn off, and He is nailed to the cross.
He is raised, and suspended between heaven and
earth, with hands and arms outstretched. There He
hangs for three hours, and makes the sacrifice of
Himself to Thee, His heavenly Father, for the salvation
of the human race. O heavenly Father, look
down on this altar and hear the sighs of Thy pleading
Son! This is the same sacrifice as that on Calvary:
let this Mass, then, have a great spiritual
benefit to all on earth. This precious blood is
offered up every day on our altars, to obtain pardon
for our sins, and new graces for the future. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Agnus Dei.
</p>

<p>
I now contemplate Jesus hanging on the cross,
His blood flowing from His wounds. I adore
Thee on the cross, I listen to Thy words as Thou dost
<pb n='316'/><anchor id='Pg316'/>
pray for sinners. This holy sacrifice is for them:
Christ is the willing Victim that is expiating the
sins of mankind; He thirsts for souls on the cross.
Father Creator, why dost Thou not create new creatures,
and satisfy the thirst of Thy divine Son?
Thou canst force the wicked to a change of heart, as
Thou didst St. Paul. <q>Create a clean heart in me,
O my God.</q> But to bring the sacrifice to completion,
after the three hours of agony the voice of Jesus
is heard exclaiming, <q>It is consummated.</q> All is
completed; the sufferings and humiliation of the
cross are over. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Communion.
</p>

<p>
Would, O my Jesus, that I were in a state to go
and unite myself to Thee! At least I will
unite myself in a spiritual manner. I should always
be so full of love towards Thee as to think ever of
Thee, and desire to be closely united to Thee and to
have Thee buried in my heart. Let me consider
before Thee, O heavenly Father, that the sacrifice
of the cross is completed, that Thou hast accepted
it, and dost look upon the earth with pity and mercy.
Still the cruelty of the Jews is not satisfied. They
have one more wound to inflict on the Lord. A
soldier with a lance opens the sacred side of Our
Lord, to demonstrate to every one that the Victim
is really dead. O my God, I offer Thee these last
marks of the love of the dead Jesus, the wound in
His sacred side, and the drops of blood and water
which issue therefrom. O my Jesus, Thy heart is
open for my reception. I will take refuge therein,
away from the temptations of the world. Give me
the grace not to fall into mortal sin, as well as to
<pb n='317'/><anchor id='Pg317'/>
persevere in my resolution to avoid even small sins
to the end of my life. I pray for the poor souls in
purgatory, for my parents, relatives, sisters and
brothers. I recommend to the goodness of Thy
Sacred Heart all my benefactors, all those who need
my prayers, all the poor, the miserable, and the
wretched. I pray also for my country; for peace,
prosperity, and love among all the nations that have
gathered here to make this their fatherland. I pray
also for the conversion of all to the faith, that this
may be the kingdom of God here on earth, one
sheepfold of Christ, the Good Shepherd. I offer to
Thee, O my God, all the sufferings of Jesus for these
necessities. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Conclusion Of The Mass.
</p>

<p>
In order that this day may be most profitable to
me, and to those for whom I have offered
this Mass, O heavenly Father, I join myself in spirit
in all the Masses that are continually being said all
over the world. What great graces are given to
mankind by this unceasing succession of oblations
of the precious body and blood of Christ! I offer
to Thee, also, O my Saviour, all the pious works
which are done by so many faithful Christians all over
the world. I offer all the confessions, communions,
rosaries, and all prayers, as well as all good works of
fasting, almsgiving, and penances which are done.
I wish to gain all the indulgences which are within
my reach to-day, that I may apply them to the souls
in purgatory. Now that the priest is about to bless
the people in Thy name, do Thou bless me, as well
as those for whom I have prayed. Pour out, by the
hands of the priest, the blessing of Thy precious
<pb n='318'/><anchor id='Pg318'/>
blood with all its merit and innumerable graces,
on the souls in purgatory. Purify us from our sins by
means of this blessing, and give us strength and
courage to do good works. Protect us, Thy children
and the heirs of Thy kingdom, and lead us to eternal
happiness in company with all the saints in
heaven. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Thanksgiving After Mass.
</p>

<p>
I thank Thee, O my God, at the end of this
Mass, for all the graces which I have received
during it. The grace of attention to this holy sacrifice,
the grace of faith by which I really saw the
dying Jesus offered to God the Father, and His sacred
blood applied to the wounds of my soul. I
thank Thee for that love which has made me come
here, and spend some time in the service of God.
May I preserve, to the end of my life, the graces
which I have received, so that they may bring me to
heaven. The love of God almighty, the grace of
His divine Son, and the imparting of the Holy
Ghost, be always with me and all the faithful
throughout the world. The power of the precious
blood, the treasure of the merits of the Blessed
Virgin, and the intercession of all the saints accompany
me now to my home, to my daily work, and
make all that I say and do faithful to eternal life.
Amen.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='319'/><anchor id='Pg319'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Three Offerings of the Precious Blood.</head>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
In thanksgiving for the gifts and privileges with which the
most holy Virgin Mary, Mother of God, was enriched, more
especially those which she received in her immaculate conception.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
1. Eternal Father, in union with the most holy
and immaculate Virgin, and in her name,
and in union with, and in the name of all the blessed
in heaven, and of all the elect upon earth, I offer
Thee the most precious blood of Jesus Christ, in
thanksgiving for the gifts and privileges with which
Thou hast enriched Mary, as Thy most obedient
daughter, particularly in her immaculate conception.
I offer Thee also this precious blood for the
conversion of poor sinners, for the propagation and
exaltation of Thy holy Church, for the safety and
prosperity of our chief pastor, the Bishop of Rome,
and according to his intentions.
</p>

<p>
Glory be to the Father, etc.
</p>

<p>
2. Eternal and Incarnate Word, in union with the
most holy and immaculate Virgin, and in her name,
and in union with, and in the name of all the blessed
in heaven, and of all the elect upon earth, I offer
Thee Thine own most precious blood, in thanksgiving
for the gifts and privileges with which Thou hast
enriched Mary, as Thy most loving Mother, particularly
in her immaculate conception. I offer Thee
also this precious blood for the conversion of poor
sinners, for the propagation and exaltation of Thy
holy Church, for the safety and prosperity of our
chief pastor, the Bishop of Rome, and according to
his intentions.
</p>

<p>
Glory be to the Father, etc.
</p>

<pb n='320'/><anchor id='Pg320'/>

<p>
3. Holy and eternal Spirit, in union with the
most holy and immaculate Virgin, and in her name,
and in union with, and in the name of all the blessed
in heaven, and of all the elect upon earth, I offer
Thee the most precious blood of Jesus, in thanksgiving
for the gifts and privileges with which Thou hast
enriched Mary, as Thy most faithful spouse, particularly
in her immaculate conception. I offer Thee
also this precious blood for the conversion of poor
sinners, for the propagation and exaltation of Thy
holy Church, for the safety and prosperity of our
chief pastor, the Bishop of Rome, and according to
his intentions.
</p>

<p>
Glory be to the Father, etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Seven Offerings of the Precious Blood of Jesus.</head>

<p>
1. Eternal Father, I offer Thee the merits of
the most precious blood of Jesus, Thy beloved
Son and my divine Redeemer, for the propagation
and exaltation of my dear Mother the holy
Church, for the safety and prosperity of her visible
head, the holy Roman Pontiff, for the cardinals,
bishops and pastors of souls, and for all the ministers
of the sanctuary.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and
to the Holy Ghost.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> As it was in the beginning, is now, and ever
shall be, world without end. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Blessed and praised for evermore be Jesus, Who
hath saved us with His blood.
</p>

<p>
2. Eternal Father, I offer Thee the merits of the
most precious blood of Jesus, Thy beloved Son and
my divine Redeemer, for the peace and concord of
<pb n='321'/><anchor id='Pg321'/>
kings and Catholic princes, for the humiliation of
the enemies of the holy faith, and for the happiness
of all Christian people.
</p>

<p>
Glory be to the Father, etc.
</p>

<p>
Blessed and praised, etc.
</p>

<p>
3. Eternal Father, I offer Thee the merits of the
most precious blood of Jesus, Thy beloved Son and
my divine Redeemer, for the repentance of unbelievers,
the extirpation of all heresies and the conversion
of sinners.
</p>

<p>
Glory be to the Father, etc.
</p>

<p>
Blessed and praised, etc.
</p>

<p>
4. Eternal Father, I offer Thee the merits of the
most precious blood of Jesus, Thy beloved Son and
my divine Redeemer, for all those who shall this
day pass to another life, that Thou mayest deliver
them from the pains of hell and admit them the
more readily to the possession of Thy glory.
</p>

<p>
Glory be to the Father, etc.
</p>

<p>
Blessed and praised, etc.
</p>

<p>
5. Eternal Father, I offer Thee the merits of the
most precious blood of Jesus, Thy beloved Son and
my divine Redeemer, for all my relatives, friends,
and enemies, for the poor, the sick, and those in
tribulation, and for all those for whom Thou willest
I should pray, or knowest that I ought to pray.
</p>

<p>
Glory be to the Father, etc.
</p>

<p>
Blessed and praised, etc.
</p>

<p>
6. Eternal Father, I offer Thee the merits of the
most precious blood of Jesus, Thy beloved Son and
my divine Redeemer, for all those who are lovers of
this treasure of His blood, and for all those who join
with me in adoring and honoring it, and for all
those who try to spread the devotion to it.
</p>

<pb n='322'/><anchor id='Pg322'/>

<p>
Glory be to the Father, etc.
</p>

<p>
Blessed and praised, etc.
</p>

<p>
7. Eternal Father, I offer Thee the merits of the
most precious blood of Jesus, Thy beloved Son and
my divine Redeemer, for all my wants, both spiritual
and temporal, for the holy souls in purgatory,
and particularly for those, who in their lifetime were
most devoted to this price of our redemption, and to
the sorrows and pains of our dear Mother, the most
holy Mary.
</p>

<p>
Glory be to the Father, etc.
</p>

<p>
Blessed and praised, etc.
</p>

<p>
Blessed and exalted be the blood of Jesus, now
and always, and through eternity.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Daily Offering.</head>

<p>
O my Lord and my God! I commend myself to
Thy adorable Heart, and in Thy sacred
wounds I resign myself to Thy holy will this day
and forever. Include me, O my Lord and my God,
in all the holy Masses that have been or will be
offered up this day in the whole world. O Lord, I
desire to share in all holy communions, all holy Benedictions,
in all indulgences, in all the merits and
prayers of devout hearts now and forever. O my
Lord and my God! I offer Thee all my steps, all my
weariness and labors, all my cares and antipathies,
all my crosses, sufferings, ignominies, injuries, persecutions,
and adversities; these I offer Thee in
honor of Thy holy humanity and of Thy most bitter
Passion and death; in the merits of all these I include
(<hi rend='italic'>here mention the names of those for whom you
wish to pray in particular</hi>), all my relatives, benefactors,
friends, enemies, the sick and dying, those who
<pb n='323'/><anchor id='Pg323'/>
are in temptation or oppressed; all that have commended
themselves to my prayers, or for whom I
have promised to pray; those to whom I have given
scandal, or whom I have in any way enticed to sin;
my parents, sisters, and brothers, who have departed
this life, and all the souls of the faithful departed.
My crucified Saviour, have mercy on the most suffering
and abandoned souls in purgatory, also on me, a
poor sinner; give me the grace I daily need to serve
Thee faithfully until death. I return Thee thanks,
thousands and millions of thanks, for all the favors
and benefits which Thou hast heaped on me from the
first moment of my existence to the present hour.
I pray Thee to preserve me always in Thy holy
grace, particularly at the hour of my death. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Plenary Indulgences For Members of the Confraternity
of the Most Precious Blood.</head>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
On the day of registration to those who, having confessed
and communicated, shall pray according to the intention
of the Supreme Pontiff. At the hour of death, after confession
and communion; or if this be impossible, to such as
being contrite, shall invoke with the lips, or if unable, with the
heart, the most sweet name of Jesus. Daily for those, who,
with confession and communion, shall make an hour's vocal or
mental prayer, or partly one and partly the other, in memory of
the Passion of Our Lord Jesus Christ, and the dolors of the most
holy Mary, praying as above.
</p>

</quote>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Other Plenary Indulgences.</head>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
For which, besides the conditions of confession and communion,
a visit is enjoined to any church whatever; and this visit
may, for any reasonable motive, be commuted by the confessor
of the individual for some other pious work.
</p>

<p>
On the first Sunday of July, being the feast of the Precious
Blood; Christmas day, the Epiphany, Easter Sunday, the
feasts of the Immaculate Conception, Purification, Assumption of
<pb n='324'/><anchor id='Pg324'/>
the Blessed Virgin, and of the most holy Rosary; the feast of
the holy apostles Saints Peter and Paul; and on the commemoration
of all the faithful departed.
</p>

<p>
On the feast of the Circumcision, on all the Fridays of March,
on the 28th of March, being the feast of the Sacred Blood in
Sta. Maria in Vado at Ferrara, on Holy Thursday, on the day
of the Invention of the Holy Cross, on Ascension day, Pentecost,
Corpus Christi, the Exaltation of the Holy Cross, and the feast
of the most holy Redeemer, the 23d of October.
</p>

<p>
On the feast of the Annunciation, the Dolors of the most holy
Mary, Good Friday, Our Lady of Carmel (July 16th), the Nativity,
Seven Dolors (third Sunday of September), and the Presentation
of the Blessed Virgin (November 21st).
</p>

<p>
On the feasts of St. Joseph, St. John Baptist, All Saints,
St. Francis Xavier, and of St. Nicholas of Bari.
</p>

<p>
Once a month on any day they may choose.
</p>

</quote>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Indulgences for all the Faithful, even Such as are not
Members.</head>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
For such as shall recite the Chaplet of the Precious Blood
once in the day, seven years and as many quarantines; and if
they recite it daily for a month, a plenary indulgence, having
confessed and communicated, on the last day of the month, or
any day in the following month. (Pius VII., Oct. 18, 1815.)
</p>

<p>
The same indulgence can be gained by the recital of thirty-three
Our Fathers, meditating at the same time on the seven
times Our Lord shed His precious blood; or, by such as are
uninstructed and incompetent to meditate, by the simple recital of
the thirty-three Our Fathers. (Gregory XVI., July 5, 1843.)
</p>

<p>
For the prayer, <q>O most precious blood, etc.,</q> placed at the
end of the Chaplet, three hundred days' indulgence, once a day.
</p>

</quote>

</div>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chaplet of the Precious Blood.</head>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
This chaplet is composed of seven mysteries, in which we
meditate upon the seven times in which Jesus Christ for
love of us shed blood from His most innocent body; at each
mystery, except the last, we are to say five Our Fathers and one
Glory be to the Father, thus making up the number of thirty-three
Our Fathers in remembrance of the thirty-three years
during which the precious blood of Jesus flowed in His veins,
before it was all poured out for our salvation. The Chaplet
ends with the devout prayer, <q>O most precious blood, etc.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<pb n='325'/><anchor id='Pg325'/>

<p>
The Chaplet.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Incline unto my aid, O God.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> O Lord, make haste to help me.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Glory be to the Father, etc.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> As it was, etc.
</p>

<p>
First Mystery.
</p>

<p>
The first time our loving Saviour shed His precious
blood for us was on the eighth day after
His birth, when He was circumcised in order to
accomplish the Law of Moses. While, then, we reflect
that Jesus did this to satisfy the justice of God
for our dissolute lives, let us excite ourselves to true
sorrow for them, and promise, with the help of His
all-powerful grace, to be henceforth truly chaste in
body and in soul.
</p>

<p>
Five Our Fathers and one Glory.
</p>

<p>
We beseech Thee, therefore, help Thy servants
whom Thou hast redeemed with Thy precious blood.
</p>

<p>
Second Mystery.
</p>

<p>
Next in the Garden of Olives, Jesus shed His
blood for us in such quantity that it bathed
the earth around. This took place at the sight of
the ingratitude with which men would meet His
love. Oh, let us then repent sincerely, because we
have hitherto corresponded so illy with the innumerable
benefits of Our God, and resolve to make
good use of His graces and holy inspirations.
</p>

<p>
Five Our Fathers, etc.
</p>

<p>
We beseech, etc.
</p>

<pb n='326'/><anchor id='Pg326'/>

<p>
Third Mystery.
</p>

<p>
Next, in His cruel scourging, Jesus shed His
blood, when His flesh was so torn that rivers
of blood flowed from His body in every part, all of
which He offered, all the time, to His eternal Father
in payment of our impatience and our delicacy.
How is it, then, we do not curb our anger and our
self-love? Henceforth we will indeed try our very
best to bear our troubles well, and, despising ourselves,
to take peacefully the injuries which men
may do us.
</p>

<p>
Five Our Fathers, etc.
</p>

<p>
We beseech, etc.
</p>

<p>
Fourth Mystery.
</p>

<p>
Again, from the sacred head of Jesus, blood
poured down when it was crowned with
thorns, in punishment of our pride and evil
thoughts. Shall we, then, continue to nurture
haughtiness, foster foul imaginations, and feed the
wayward will in our minds? Henceforth let there
ever be before our eyes our utter nothingness, our
misery and our weakness; and with generous hearts
let us resist all the wicked suggestions of the devil.
</p>

<p>
Five Our Fathers, etc.
</p>

<p>
We beseech, etc.
</p>

<p>
Fifth Mystery.
</p>

<p>
How much of His precious blood did not our
loving Lord pour forth from His veins, when
laden with the heavy wood of the cross on the
mournful way to Calvary, so that the streets and
<pb n='327'/><anchor id='Pg327'/>
ways of Jerusalem through which He passed were
watered with it! This was done in satisfaction for
the scandals and the bad examples by which His own
creatures had led others astray on the way to ruin.
Who can tell how many of us are of this unhappy
number? Who knows how many he himself alone
has by his own bad example brought down to hell?
And have we done anything to remedy this evil?
Let us henceforth, at least, endeavor all we can to
save souls by word and by example, making ourselves
a pattern to all of a good and holy life.
</p>

<p>
Five Our Fathers, etc.
</p>

<p>
We beseech, etc.
</p>

<p>
Sixth Mystery.
</p>

<p>
Still more copiously the Redeemer of mankind
shed blood in His barbarous crucifixion; when
His veins being rent and arteries burst, there rushed
forth in a torrent from His hands and His feet that
saving balm of life eternal, to pay for all the crimes
and enormities of the universe. Whoever, after this,
would continue in sin, and so renew the cruel crucifixion
of the Son of God? Let us weep bitterly for
our bad deeds, and let us detest them at the feet of
the sacred minister of God; let us amend our evil
ways, and henceforth begin a truly Christian life,
with the thought ever in our hearts of all the blood
which our eternal salvation cost the Saviour of men.
</p>

<p>
Five Our Fathers, etc.
</p>

<p>
We beseech, etc.
</p>

<p>
Seventh Mystery.
</p>

<p>
Last of all, after His death, when His sacred
side was opened, and His loving Heart was
<pb n='328'/><anchor id='Pg328'/>
wounded, Jesus shed blood, and with the blood there
came forth water, to show us how the blood was all
poured out to the last drop for our salvation. Oh, the
infinite goodness of Our Redeemer! Who will not
love Thee, my Saviour? What heart will not consume
itself away for love of Thee, Who hast done all
this for our redemption? The tongue wants words
to praise Thee; let us, then, invite all creatures upon
earth, all angels and all saints in paradise, and most
of all, our dear Mother Mary, to bless, to praise, and
to celebrate Thy most precious blood. Glory to the
blood of Jesus! Glory to the blood of Jesus! now
and ever throughout all ages. Amen.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
At this last mystery three Our Fathers and one Glory be to
the Father, etc., are said to make up the number of thirty-three.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
We beseech, etc.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Then the following</hi>
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O most precious blood of eternal life, the ransom
and redemption of the whole universe! the
drink and bath of our souls, thou who art ever pleading
the cause of men before the throne of God's
sovereign mercy! I adore thee most profoundly,
and desire, as far as it is in my power, to compensate
thee for the insults and affronts which thou art
continually receiving at the hands of men, especially
of those who rashly dare to blaspheme thee. And
who is there that will not bless this blood of infinite
value? Who is there that will not feel himself inflamed
with love for Jesus, Who shed it? What
should I be if I had not been redeemed by this divine
blood? What was it that drew thee forth from
the veins of my Lord, even to the last drop? Ah!
<pb n='329'/><anchor id='Pg329'/>
it was naught else but love. O boundless love, that
has given us this balsam of salvation! O balsam beyond
price, streaming forth from the well-spring of
a boundless love, grant, oh, grant that every heart
and tongue may praise, and magnify, and bless
thee, now and forever, even unto the day of
eternity. Amen.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Thou hast redeemed us, O Lord, with Thy
blood.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And Thou hast made us a kingdom unto Our
God.
</p>

<p>
O almighty and eternal God, Who hast appointed
Thy only-begotten Son to be the Redeemer of the
world, and hast willed to be appeased by His blood,
grant, we beseech Thee, that we may venerate upon
earth the price of our salvation, and be shielded by
its might from the evils of this present life, so that
we may enjoy it everlastingly in heaven. Who
liveth and reigneth with Thee in the unity of the
Holy Ghost, God, world without end. Amen.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='330'/><anchor id='Pg330'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>August. The Holy Ghost.</head>

<p>
We may during this month take up the devotion to the
Holy Ghost.
</p>

<p>
This devotion to the Holy Spirit should be the chief of all
devotions, because it was the first that was ever celebrated, and
that by no less devout worshippers than the holy apostles and
the most holy Mary in the upper room at Jerusalem. It is one
which is growing in the hearts of the people, because so much
depends for our sanctification on the influence of the graces bestowed
on us by God the Holy Ghost. Faith teaches us that
the Holy Ghost is the love which the Father and the Son bear
one to the other; and therefore the gift of love which the Lord
infuses into our souls, and which is the greatest of all gifts, is
attributed to the Holy Ghost. St. Paul says, <q>The charity of
God is poured forth in our hearts by the Holy Ghost, Who is
given to us.</q>&mdash;Rom. v. 5.
</p>

<p>
The Holy Ghost, Who proceedeth from the Father and the
Son is called a fire, because His action in our souls purifies us
from sin and fills us with divine love. As the action of fire
may be said to be irresistible, it is right that the Holy Ghost
be represented by that symbol, since He was to give spirit and
wisdom to Christians, which all their adversaries should not be
able to resist or gainsay.
</p>

<p>
If we observe the commandments of God, the Holy Spirit will
abide with us to enlighten our minds and strengthen our wills,
and give us grace to follow Jesus Christ. The Holy Spirit will
give us an increase of devotion towards the Holy Sacrament of
the Altar, and the sacrifice of the Mass, and will pour the charity
of God into our hearts.
</p>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Considerations and Prayers for Every Day.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>First Day.</head>

<p>
Be devout to the Third Person of the Blessed
Trinity. His presence is everywhere, and
<pb n='331'/><anchor id='Pg331'/>
His power is manifested in all things. His office in
the Church is that of lifegiver, and in our souls He
is the perfect illumination of the intellect. Without
this strength the intellect may be cultivated, but it
will be cold and dim. The errors of our mind, its
low vices and fragmentary opinions, its distorted judgments,
unfounded propositions, and shallow conception
of the nature of things, are all defects traceable
to our carelessness in the devotion to the Holy Ghost.
A pious person devoted to the worship of the Holy
Spirit will naturally know God's will and follow it.
The degree of his explicit knowledge will still depend
on natural gifts and their due cultivation; but with
the docility of the heart and the influence of the Holy
Ghost, there will dawn on his mind a knowledge
which is often superior to that acquired by the intellect
alone. Before and after your actions seek light
from this divine Teacher, and in all your daily life continue
in the consciousness of your dependence on the
Holy Ghost.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Ghost, fill the hearts of Thy faithful,
and enkindle in them the fire of Thy love.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Send forth Thy Spirit, and they shall be
created.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And Thou shalt renew the face of the earth.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Let Us Pray.</hi>
</p>

<p>
O God, Who didst instruct the hearts of the faithful
by the light of Thy Holy Spirit, grant us in the
same Holy Spirit to relish what is right, and ever to
rejoice in His consolation, through Christ Our Lord.
Amen.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='332'/><anchor id='Pg332'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Second Day.</head>

<p>
St. Edward was one day waiting, in a school at
Paris, for the arrival of his scholars. He was
about to expound to them the mystery of the Holy
Trinity. Being tired he fell into a slumber, in
which he had a dream. He saw a dove descending
towards him; it bore on its back the sacred Host,
and laid it on his lips. When he awoke he went to
the lecture-room, and began his discourse; all who
heard him were struck by the sweetness and clearness
of his explanations. It was the devotion to the Holy
Ghost that gave a newness and a charm to all he
said, and impressed itself not only on his hearers,
but also on himself, so that he became full of the
unction and fire of the Spirit of God. We will not
be disappointed if we solicit the interest of the Holy
Ghost in our behalf. In all our work let us look
first to this Light of God, which illumines every soul
coming into this world, and our actions will be for
the glory of God, our minds will become energetic
through the purification of our motives, and our whole
life will take on a new exterior of humility and perfection.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Ghost, fill the hearts of Thy faithful,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Third Day.</head>

<p>
The Holy Ghost is the Third Person of the
Blessed Trinity: this is one of the dogmas
of the Christian religion; it is the foundation of our
holy faith. In God there are three divine persons,
<pb n='333'/><anchor id='Pg333'/>
the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Each
person, among created intelligences, is a distinct and
a separate unity, complete, entire in itself, but by
its limitation making only one individual. But in
God the three divine persons have one distinct
mode of subsistence, for each possesses in common
the whole divine essence. The substance of God belongs
to each of the three divine persons. Therefore
we say that there are three divine persons in God,
not three individuals; for an individual would signify
a distinct nature. Accordingly, the Athanasian
creed declares, <q>Such as the Father is, such is the
Son, and such is the Holy Ghost.</q> The Father is
God, the Son is God, and the Holy Ghost is God.
Yet there are not three Gods, but only one God. In
speaking of the nature of God's being, we find ourselves
necessarily beyond the power of reasoning;
we only know that the infinite God is one in essence
and three in person.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Ghost, fill the hearts of Thy faithful,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fourth Day.</head>

<p>
The Holy Ghost is God, one of the three divine
persons, as is evident from the Scriptures.
The Holy Ghost is joined with the Father and
the Son, and therefore He really exists and is
called God. All the divine attributes are given
Him: omnipresence, omnipotence, and justice.
He is therefore God, and proceeds from the
Father and the Son; He is the Spirit of God, and
also the Spirit of Christ. The Holy Ghost proceeds
<pb n='334'/><anchor id='Pg334'/>
from the Father and the Son as the breath of the life
of intelligence and love. <q>Because you are sons,
God hath sent the spirit of His Son into your hearts,
crying: Abba, Father.</q>&mdash;Gal. iv. 6. <q>But when
He, the Spirit of truth, is come, He will teach you
all truth; for He shall not speak of Himself: but
whatsoever things He shall hear He shall speak: ...
He shall glorify Me: because He shall receive of
Mine, and shall show it to you. All things whatsoever
the Father hath, are Mine. Therefore I said:
that He shall receive of Mine, and show it to you.</q>&mdash;John
xvi. 13-15.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Ghost, fill the hearts of Thy faithful,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fifth Day.</head>

<p>
We cannot understand the mystery of the Blessed
Trinity. We cannot understand the persons
of the Blessed Trinity, neither the Father, the Son,
nor the Holy Ghost; they are infinite. Still we can
think of the Blessed Trinity, and guided by what we
know through revelation and theology, try to go still
further and discover more of the glory surrounding it.
One person of the Holy Trinity is as great as the
other; there is really no first nor second in dignity or
power. There is, however, a marvellous order in
the unity of the Trinity, thus expressed in the creed
of St. Athanasius: <q>The Father is made of none,
neither created nor begotten. The Son is from the
Father alone, not made nor created, but begotten.
The Holy Ghost is from the Father and the Son, not
made nor created nor begotten, but proceeding.</q>
Thus the Holy Trinity exists from all eternity, supremely
<pb n='335'/><anchor id='Pg335'/>
happy in itself, not needing anything
exteriorly to assist in its existence.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Ghost, fill the hearts of Thy faithful,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Sixth Day.</head>

<p>
God begets His Son by knowledge; the Son is the
knowledge of the Father, but the Spirit proceeds
from the Father and the Son by way of love.
The Father and the Son, by an act of supreme natural
love breathe forth the co-eternal Spirit. The Spirit
proceeds from both, the pledge of their mutual affection,
and the expression of infinite beatitude. The
Father loves the Son with such an infinite love as to
breathe forth a divine Spirit through His Son. As
St. Bernard says, the Spirit is the sacred kiss of the
Father and the Son in their imperturbable peace, their
firm coherence, their undivided love, their indivisible
unity. The Son proceeds from the Father as the ray
from the sun; the Holy Ghost from the Father and
the Son as the heat from the ray and the sun. The Son
as the word, the Holy Ghost as the breath; the Son
as the river from the fountain; the Holy Ghost as
the lightning from the cloud. These expressions
hardly convey what is meant, because the ray is
smaller than the sun; while in God the ray is equal,
the heat is consubstantial with its source. The word
says all, the breath is real, the fire burns always and
is never extinguished.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Ghost, fill the hearts of Thy faithful,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='336'/><anchor id='Pg336'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Seventh Day.</head>

<p>
It will be part of the beatitude of the saints to
know something of this generation and procession
of the Holy Ghost; they will be filled with
gladness inexpressible in the sight of God. They
will see God as He is; in their contemplation they
will rise higher and higher, and by their studies know
more and more of God. As we are charmed with
the beauties of knowledge, the attraction of literature,
so we will feel greater happiness as we study the being
of God in all its depths. <q>O the depths of the
riches of the wisdom and of the knowledge of God!
How incomprehensible are His judgments, and how
unsearchable His ways!</q>&mdash;Rom. xi. 33. The
Church, in the office and Mass of the feast of the
most Holy Trinity repeats the same words, as the
expression of her awe and adoration in the presence
of the infinitely unsearchable ways of God in the
Trinity. In adoring this life of God, for life it is
indeed, we are overwhelmed with awe, and are but
able in our astonishment to cry out with the Church,
<q>O Blessed Trinity!</q>
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Ghost, fill the hearts of Thy faithful,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Eighth Day.</head>

<p>
The Holy Trinity does all the work exterior to
itself by the joint power of all; for the persons
of God cannot be separated from the one God.
There are certain things which in our human mind
we ascribe more to one person than to the other, but
all the divine persons must necessarily be participants
<pb n='337'/><anchor id='Pg337'/>
in the work of each. For example, the creation is
ascribed to the Father, because it seems to be a parental
act to call something into existence, and so we
say God the Father created us. God the Son redeemed
us, and God the Holy Ghost sanctifies us. And still
we read that in the creation, <q>The Spirit of the Lord
moved over the waters,</q> meaning that God the
Father was not only or singly engaged in the creation,
but that the other divine persons participated
also. The same way, in the creation of man, all the
divine persons were engaged in this important work
of God's power. Human beings were to know God,
and to become the temples of the Holy Ghost; and
consequently the Holy Ghost had early in the creation
to show His co-operation.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Ghost, fill the hearts of Thy faithful,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ninth Day.</head>

<p>
Hence, in the beginning of the world, God created
a man, framing his body out of clay and
dust, but giving him a living soul by breathing upon
him. It was the Spirit of God that gave that soul
the touch of life and immortality. There is a wonderful
similarity between that breathing into man at
his creation, and the time when, after the resurrection,
the Lord appeared to the apostles and breathed on
them, saying: <q>Receive ye the Holy Ghost.</q> St.
Athanasius says, <q>First by the Word of God, man
was made. And the Lord breathed into him the Spirit
of life, and confirmed him with a participation of
His Spirit. The same God confers His Spirit on His
<pb n='338'/><anchor id='Pg338'/>
disciples, that we may be renovated in the same Spirit
in Whom we first were made.</q> No doubt both the
natural life, the life of the body, and also the supernatural
life, the love of God and participation
in His glory, were granted by the Holy Ghost at the
creation.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Ghost, fill the hearts of Thy faithful,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Tenth Day.</head>

<p>
The Holy Ghost infuses into our hearts sanctifying
grace, by which we become pleasing to
God, and we can call Him Our Father. What a great
grace this is&mdash;to be pleasing to God! We had sinned
and had become aliens to God's kindness and grace.
We did not live a simple, natural life, for our existence
was sinful after the fall of Adam and Eve.
But the Holy Spirit came again into our hearts,
and we were created new beings. The old scars of
sin and condemnation disappeared, and our present
supernatural condition is nobler, perhaps, than was
the condition of Adam before his fall. It was this
consideration which caused the Fathers of the Church,
and the Church herself, in her paschal song of the
<q>Exultet,</q> to exclaim, <q>O happy fault, which gave
the occasion to almighty God to rescue us from eternal
death, and to give us new life, in the resurrection
of the Lord.</q> Great, then, is the love of the
Holy Ghost for us. He wishes to claim us as His
temples.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Ghost, fill the hearts of Thy faithful,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='339'/><anchor id='Pg339'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Eleventh Day.</head>

<p>
We are, therefore, different from Adam; since
the Fall our condition has been changed.
Adam at his creation was constituted in the state of
grace, placed in that blessed condition by the goodness
of the Holy Ghost. The justice which Adam
received was the indwelling of the Holy Spirit in
the soul, which illuminated his mind to such a degree
that he not only understood the things about him,
but it also gave him a sight of heaven itself, and the
perfections of God. Hence Adam, the pure creature,
grand and noble as he was, created and gifted
by almighty God, was a favored being indeed, and
all mankind after him. For we also are created by
God, we have the Holy Spirit dwelling in us by
Baptism, and therefore are children of God by a still
greater reason than Adam was. The power of the
Holy Ghost has thus been displayed in the creation
of man, in the continuation of his existence, and in
all his work up to the present time.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Ghost, fill the hearts of Thy faithful,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twelfth Day.</head>

<p>
By Adam's disobedience his glory and greatness
were swept away. The presence of the Holy
Ghost was forfeited, and in His place reigned ignorance,
weakness, and passion. Man not only ignored
God, but fell deeper and deeper into a degrading
ignorance until he lived a life not far removed from
the brute. Man became so weak and unreliable that
<pb n='340'/><anchor id='Pg340'/>
even if ignorance was removed by education, his
will was subject to the allurements of interest and
passion. Terrible confusion ensued in the ages after
the fall of Adam and Eve. But God had mercy on
the human race, and promised a Redeemer, by
Whom we were to regain salvation. Instead of falling
a prey to the devil after death, man had a means
of reinstating himself in the mercy and goodness of
God, for, as the Apostle says in his first epistle to
Timothy: <q>God will have all men to be saved, and
to come to the knowledge of truth.</q> We should appreciate
highly this work of our redemption. Mankind
could do nothing of itself. It deserved to die,
and share with the evil spirits eternal damnation,
but through the mercy of God it was not consumed.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Ghost, fill the hearts of Thy faithful,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirteenth Day.</head>

<p>
Our justification comes from Christ's redemption,
by the operation of the Holy Ghost. <q>But
you are washed, but you are sanctified, but you are
justified in the name of Our Lord Jesus Christ, and
the Spirit of Our God.</q>&mdash;1 Cor. vi. 11. It is still the
operation of the Holy Ghost which brings comfort
to our souls. Since the Fall, the Spirit of God has
assisted every man that came into the world, so that
there never yet was a soul which had not sufficient
grace to escape from eternal death, if it only had
fidelity to correspond with it. Even heathens may,
according to the mercy of God, find the means ready
at hand by which to be saved. Every soul is created
<pb n='341'/><anchor id='Pg341'/>
in the likeness of God; the light of reason shining
in the soul is a means of salvation, the whole world
reveals the existence of God. Every living soul in
the order of nature, then, has the illumination of
God's grace, and by the light of conscience, which
is reason, can rightly exercise its will in the performance
of duty. <q>We hope in the living God, Who
is the Saviour of all men,</q> and especially of the
faithful. The work of the Holy Ghost, even in the
order of nature that is outside of the Church, is going
on, giving to all men grace to be saved.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Ghost, fill the hearts of Thy faithful,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fourteenth Day.</head>

<p>
When the disciples returned to Jerusalem, after the
ascension of Our Lord, they chose for their
habitation the cenacle in which the Last Supper had
taken place. There they spent the eight days previous
to the feast of Pentecost, in a retreat of prayer
and meditation. There they waited patiently for
the realization of the promise made by Our Lord,
that the Paraclete would come. Their souls were
filled with that peace which the Lord had given
them; they had learned the lesson of charity and
submission, they had now one heart and one mind.
No doubt, with them in prayer, were Mary the
Mother of Jesus and the pious women who also were
to receive the Holy Spirit. What a consolation was
not the presence of Mary to the apostles! She was
now their Mother; Christ Himself desired that she
should be their comfort. The apostles loved the
<pb n='342'/><anchor id='Pg342'/>
Mother of Jesus, consulted her about the future of
the Church, and no doubt learned from her the
secrets of divine love that filled her soul, learned
from her the love that Jesus bore to His holy
Church. They honored her with reverence, because
she was the Mother of Him Whom they now knew to
be God. It was the beginning of the devotion to
the Blessed Virgin&mdash;a devotion which has continued
in the Church ever since with unabated ardor.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Ghost, fill the hearts of Thy faithful,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fifteenth Day.</head>

<p>
The apostles persevered in prayer in the holy
cenacle. They had learned the necessity of
prayer from Our Lord Himself. He inculcated it by
command and example, and now they put His precepts
into execution; they made prayer the chief
preparation for the coming of the Holy Ghost. God
was present among them, and heard them, for they
were assembled in the name of Jesus. These long
hours of supplication penetrated heaven and filled
the earth with consolation; bringing upon them the
graces and benedictions of Jesus. They had time to
enter into themselves, and to cure their souls of the
weakness of human nature. They had much cause
for anxiety. What a battle, and apparently what a
hopeless battle, was before them! They were to
preach to the world; to conquer and to teach it the
maxims of the Christian religion. They knew that
the world was not willing to receive the Gospel, and
yet they had to observe the injunction of Our Lord,
<pb n='343'/><anchor id='Pg343'/>
to teach all nations, and to command them to observe
all that Christ had taught. The apostles were filled
with a great love for the salvation of mankind, and
in the cenacle they began to be apostles of prayer,
by which they were to be victorious over all difficulties.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Ghost, fill the hearts of Thy faithful,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Sixteenth Day.</head>

<p>
At length the retreat of the apostles was over;
they were still assembled in that upper room,
the time for the appearance of the Holy Spirit had
arrived, the Third Person of the Blessed Trinity
was to come in His sevenfold power to dwell in the
Church of God forever, as well as in the hearts of
all its faithful members. The Holy Ghost came
like a mighty wind, and filled the whole house, and
descended on those present in the form of fiery
tongues. How devoutly did they receive the Holy
Spirit! With what acts of adoration did they greet
the visible presence of the great Comforter, the
Paraclete, the Third Person of the Blessed Trinity!
For this they had been waiting and praying, for this
they had remained away from the distractions of the
world, so that they might undisturbed feel the power
of God in themselves. The Holy Ghost came in the
form of tongues of fire, the same fire of which Our
Lord spoke when He exclaimed, <q>I am come to
send fire on the earth, and what is My will but that
it be kindled?</q> It was the fire of charity&mdash;the
charity of Christ, by which we endeavor to save our
souls, and the souls of others.
</p>

<pb n='344'/><anchor id='Pg344'/>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Ghost, fill the hearts of Thy faithful,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Seventeenth Day.</head>

<p>
The Holy Ghost appeared under the form of
tongues of fire, to show us that out of charity
we should raise our voice in the propagation and defence
of truth. The inspiration of the Holy Spirit
obliges us to correct others, and to lead them gently
on in the way of salvation. Not only had the apostles
this obligation, but the priest must preach, the father
and the mother instruct their children, and the master
guide those under him. It is this sacred fire that
will make the faithful listen with respect to their
pastors, and practise their religion; children will be
induced to be docile to their parents, and subjects
will be respectful to those in authority. This burning
fire will purify all men, for the fire of divine love
has a power to consume the gnawing vices of selfishness,
indolence, and jealousy; it will burn up the
materials on which our passions feed.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Ghost, fill the hearts of Thy faithful,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Eighteenth Day.</head>

<p>
The apostles were certainly in a worthy condition
to receive the Holy Ghost; they received Him
in His fulness, and the effects of His coming were
soon manifest in them. They could no longer contain
themselves in silence in that upper chamber;
<pb n='345'/><anchor id='Pg345'/>
they were compelled to give utterance to the truth.
They received the gifts of the Holy Ghost, gifts
which are the result of the enlightenment coming
from the Spirit of God. We do not receive the
Holy Ghost in the form of fiery tongues at Confirmation,
but we receive the gifts of the Holy Ghost:
wisdom, understanding, knowledge, counsel, piety,
fortitude, and fear of the Lord. Let us see what
these gifts are, that we may know that we possess
them, and by our study develop them, that they may
not remain idle in our souls. We must stir up the
grace that is in us; we must, during this month, pray
that these gifts may find opportunities for exercise.
The apostles showed in their lives that these gifts
were theirs in all perfection. In a lesser or greater
degree we may possess them also, for these virtues
should be in every Christian soul as a result of the
visitation of the Holy Spirit.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Ghost, fill the hearts of Thy faithful,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Nineteenth Day.</head>

<p>
The gift of understanding enables us to appreciate
the beauty of all revealed truths. It is
not like faith, by which we implicitly accept God's
revelation, but it gives us the reasons for making an
act of faith; it will show us that our faith is true,
because it shows us on what foundation the truth
rests. Even after Our Lord's resurrection the disciples
showed that they did not understand what
they had been told. They did not understand the
Scriptures, for Our Lord had to upbraid the apostles
<pb n='346'/><anchor id='Pg346'/>
for their incredulity and hardness of heart. Did
He not reproach the two disciples returning to
Emmaus with a slowness of understanding, because
they were still wavering in the faith of the crucified
Jesus? The apostles needed the inspiration of the
Holy Ghost, in order to comprehend the Scriptures
and the prophecies made concerning their Master.
The gift of understanding shows us the necessity of
virtues in ourselves, so that we may be willing to
study them and to acquire them; it shows us the
goodness of others and makes us appreciate their
labors; it gives us insight into the order of things,
that we may submit ourselves to authority and be
docile to the teachings of the Church.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Ghost, fill the hearts of Thy faithful,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twentieth Day.</head>

<p>
The gift of wisdom is a superior discernment of
good and evil; it gives men a real taste and
predilection for all that is good and holy, all that is
connected with God and divine things; it turns
their eyes to God, and teaches them to look at
everything from God's point of view. It makes
them love prayer, recollection, good conversation,
and good reading. This is a great gift of the Holy
Ghost, and one that seems to prefigure our predestination,
because it places before our minds so vividly
the necessity of doing good in order to go to
heaven. How little of this heavenly wisdom do we
generally possess! Wise enough are we in the ways
of the world; we know how to make money, and to
<pb n='347'/><anchor id='Pg347'/>
hoard it up; but we care little how to gain spiritual
treasures. Do we not class ourselves with the children
of the world by our smartness in gathering
earthly goods? Our Lord said the children of the
world were wiser in their generation than the children
of light. He praises them, not to have us
imitate them, but to put us on our guard against
the false wisdom which is so easily acquired. The
apostles, in the beginning of their election to the
apostolic life, had not that heavenly wisdom, for
they had very worldly ideas about the kingdom
which they thought Jesus was to establish on earth.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Ghost, fill the hearts of Thy faithful,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-first Day.</head>

<p>
Knowledge is the possession of truth. When
our mind is well stored with information we
are said to have knowledge. The same may be said
of spiritual knowledge, only it refers to spiritual
things. We have knowledge, then, in a spiritual
sense, when we put together our experiences and
draw practical conclusions from them&mdash;when we
realize that God created the world, and that we
were created to save our souls. Hence we ought to
use the world, not for our own exclusive enjoyment,
nor for the purpose of amassing wealth, but for the
greater glory of God. We know that we were
placed on the earth, intelligent beings, to praise and
serve God. It was in virtue of this knowledge that
St. Ignatius declared that all the world around him
recalled God to him. We too must see God in all
<pb n='348'/><anchor id='Pg348'/>
things, and never lose sight of the end of our creation;
those who love the world for its own sake
cannot love God; we cannot serve God and Mammon;
we know from our own bitter experience that
as soon as we love the world, we have lost the love
of God, and without the love of God it is impossible
to go to heaven. The absence of this spiritual
knowledge makes us impatient because we have not
all the things we want, and we resist His holy will.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Ghost, fill the hearts of Thy faithful,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-second Day.</head>

<p>
The gift of counsel contains all that is good in
human prudence, and much more. It leads
us always to pause and to turn our thoughts to God
before we act; we avoid precipitation, rashness, and
inconsiderate impulses. It makes us calm and deliberate,
and teaches us never to act in any important
matter without seeking guidance from God. This
gift also shows us that it is God's will to run counter
to what the world considers prudent. So Abraham
did when he left his home at God's command, and
went to the land which God chose for him, where
the people of God were to live together and he was
to be their spiritual as well as their real father. So
David, when a poor boy, went out at God's command
to fight the giant, armed only with a stone and
sling. Judith was moved by the same impulse when
she went to the camp of Holofernes, and brought his
head back into the city. It is also our duty that when
we know the will of God we do it generously, no
<pb n='349'/><anchor id='Pg349'/>
matter what difficulties may beset our paths. The
gift of counsel will also put into our mouth that encouragement
for others which will help them to lead
a life of virtue and patience, remembering that the
trials of life last but a short time.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Ghost, fill the hearts of Thy faithful,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-third Day.</head>

<p>
The Holy Ghost also infuses into our soul the
gift of piety&mdash;that loyal, tender, filial affection
towards God as Our Father. <q>You have received,</q>
says St. Paul, <q>the spirit of adoption of sons,
whereby we cry: Abba, Father.</q>&mdash;Rom. viii. 15.
By this sacred gift we forget ourselves and cling only
to God, Who is our support and help. We love
God, and serve Him with alacrity, because He is
Our Father in heaven. If I am a son of God, loyal
to my Father in heaven, every act of mine, every
thought, is centred in Him. Such was the intense
love of the apostles for Our Lord; from the time
when He chose them, the virtue of piety was implanted
in them, though it was only perfected after
the death of Christ. It was after the ascension of
Our Lord, when the Holy Spirit had fully inspired
this virtue in their souls, that they began to have a
filial affection towards Our Lord, a keen attachment
of love and affection. Do we realize the
meaning of the gift of piety? We ought to be
anxious to possess this virtue, because it makes the
burden of the service of God easy: <q>where there is
love, there is no labor.</q>
</p>

<pb n='350'/><anchor id='Pg350'/>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Ghost, fill the hearts of Thy faithful,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-fourth Day.</head>

<p>
The gift of fortitude is necessary in some degree
to one who is anxious to save his soul. All
Christians are called on, at some time or other, to endure
in the practice of their religion things for which
mere human courage will not suffice. Those who
desire a high place in heaven have a hard struggle
before them, a struggle which would be beyond the
power of many of us if we did not rely on the Holy
Ghost. The gift of fortitude is the power to be
strong of soul as the athlete is strong of body; for
as a man hardens and develops his frame by all sorts
of physical exercises, so also should the soul develop
the good that is in her&mdash;which is the highest good&mdash;by
spiritual exercises. Of her own power she is not
able to do great things, but by the work of God the
Holy Ghost she can do them. We can bear heavy
sorrows with patience and resignation; we can rise
out of vices and evil habits by means of fortitude,
when without this virtue we would remain slaves of
Satan. How pusillanimous were the apostles in the
beginning of their apostolic career; there was a disgraceful
weakness exhibited at the Passion of Our
Lord. Peter denied Our Lord, and the rest fled and
hid themselves.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Ghost, fill the hearts of Thy faithful,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='351'/><anchor id='Pg351'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-fifth Day.</head>

<p>
The gift on which we wish to meditate to-day in
honor of the giver, the Holy Ghost, is the fear
of the Lord. Remember that it is said that the fear
of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom; we need
then this holy gift, that by it we may remain in subjection
and reverence to the adorable majesty of God.
We acknowledge our littleness and leave ourselves
entirely in the hands of God; we are afraid of committing
sin, we are cautious, lest by an act or thought
we may offend almighty God; we are careful to submit
ourselves to His holy will; we see our faults, and
we lament that we are so full of sin, when we ought,
with His grace, to improve in His service. We must
stand in dread of the Judgment and also of ourselves,
because we fall so readily into sin that we know not
whether we are worthy of love or hatred from almighty
God; but when we fall it is our own fault, for we
depend too much on ourselves; we are wicked because
we prefer evil to good, and would rather serve
the devil than God. Let us learn this salutary fear
of God, and acquire a delicacy of conscience.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Ghost, fill the hearts of Thy faithful,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-sixth Day.</head>

<p>
We have now meditated on the gifts of the Holy
Ghost. We see how generous the adorable
Spirit is. He is constantly giving Himself and yet
is never exhausted, so that we are rich indeed by the
goodness of the Holy Ghost. Our mind is enlightened,
<pb n='352'/><anchor id='Pg352'/>
and we pray to the Holy Spirit to open our
hearts and to enkindle in them the fire of divine
love. Before all our actions we call on the sacred
Spirit to help us, so that our actions may be done
well, an honor to God and a source of merit to ourselves.
On the feast of Pentecost we celebrate other
gifts: as the gift of <q>language,</q> which is the means
by which the Gospel is spread all over the world.
Again was given by the Holy Ghost the gift of
<q>healing.</q> The first Christians were able to work
miracles. We have lost confidence; had we the
same strong faith many wonders would also happen
at our bidding.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Ghost, fill the hearts of Thy faithful,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-seventh Day.</head>

<p>
The Holy Ghost has also other gifts in store for
us, gifts which are called fruits&mdash;as if from
this divine tree were growing a variety of different
virtues, diffused from united efforts. There must be
some result from this expenditure of power, and
when we are good Christians we will certainly enjoy
these gifts and fruits: they will grow on the tree of
the Holy Ghost and will be reproduced in our
hearts. These fruits are twelve in number: Charity,
joy, peace, patience, benignity, goodness, long-suffering,
mildness, faith, modesty, continency, and
chastity. Charity is a love and kindness towards all
mankind; we love all the members of the human
family and we are interested in their welfare; we
are continually searching for means to help them,
and all for the one purpose: the good of their immortal
<pb n='353'/><anchor id='Pg353'/>
souls. By this virtue we are moved to share
our goods with others, contenting ourselves with
what is necessary. Another beautiful fruit of the
Holy Ghost is eternal joy. Our souls are continually
rejoicing in God, Who is our great reward.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Ghost, fill the hearts of Thy faithful,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-eighth Day.</head>

<p>
Peace is a gift of the Holy Ghost, somewhat similar
to joy; if we have peace nothing can
disturb our soul; even if we are afflicted we are not
out of humor, for we see that it is the will of God,
Who is our kind Father, and that everything is for
our special benefit. We are at peace with our fellow-creatures,
for we are not actuated by inordinate
ambition, nor by grasping avarice, so that we are
loved by all. Patience is a gift of the Holy Spirit
by which we endure the ills of the flesh without a
murmur and with resignation. What a beautiful
virtue and gift we have in this. We love the virtue
in others, and we must endeavor to possess it also in
ourselves, so as to be a spectacle of patience to men
and angels. With benignity, goodness, and mildness,
we meet others and charm them with our kindness;
they are virtues that result from the thorough
practice of charity; it is the combination of these
virtues that makes true Christian politeness. What
a beautiful world this would be if every one in it
would be imbued with these sentiments.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Ghost, fill the hearts of Thy faithful,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='354'/><anchor id='Pg354'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-ninth Day.</head>

<p>
Faith is a holy gift of trust in God, in His holy
revelation, in the Church, her precepts and
teaching, her discipline, and her devotions. We realize
and form our conduct on these matters of faith,
so that they become the foundation of our hope and
our consolation in trials. God becomes to us a
living reality, not a vague speculation; and the
Church the representative of God on earth, the
spouse of Jesus Christ. The just man lives by faith
and in the faith; he is full of the trust, the justice,
and the mercy of God. Modesty is a fruit of the
possession of the Holy Ghost, because by it we are
retired, unassuming, caring nothing for the show
and allurements of the world. Prayer, meditation,
and pious reading should be our favorite occupations,
in which we would find a great deal of pleasure;
our duties would be well performed, because we
would set our whole mind on them in all the quietness
of our soul. Continency and chastity are also
the result of the presence in our soul of the Holy
Spirit; we abhor the pleasures of sensuality, and
keep ourselves pure from all contamination, according
to the state of life which we have chosen or in
which we find ourselves.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Ghost, fill the hearts of Thy faithful,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirtieth Day.</head>

<p>
The fruits and gifts of the Holy Ghost may be
easily seen in the effects the apostles experienced
at the coming of the Paraclete. As we noticed,
<pb n='355'/><anchor id='Pg355'/>
the apostles were rather worldly in their perceptions
of the divine intentions; they manifested their
frailty in many ways during the life of Christ, so that
they were even publicly rebuked by Our Lord. But
now they have become apostolic men; they love
poverty, and are content to work at their humble
trade in order not to be a burden on the newly made
converts. As St. Peter asserts, <q>He desired the
money of no man.</q> They love sufferings, from
which they had so often shrank before. They understand
that to suffer for Christ was great glory and
consolation&mdash;they who before had been narrow,
selfish, and ready to condemn others, now become
full of charity to all the world. Into their heart the
Spirit of love has descended, and their motto becomes
charity towards others. The charity of Christ is the
one motive of all they think and do.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Ghost, fill the hearts of Thy faithful,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirty-first Day.</head>

<p>
We see another great change in the apostles by
means of the presence of the Holy Ghost;
they surprise us by the bold stand they take before
the Jewish authorities. We know they were timid
and cowardly at the apprehension of Our Lord, and
were almost scandalized at His death on the cross.
Now they challenge the Jews with a freedom of speech
that the chief priests are unable to explain; they
face the wrath of the Jewish council, the Sanhedrim;
and undismayed they say: <q>Judge for yourselves if
it be just in the sight of God to hear you, rather than
<pb n='356'/><anchor id='Pg356'/>
God.</q> If then the apostles become such perfect
men by the influence of the Holy Ghost, is it not
worth our while also to remain in prayer and meditation
on the power of the Holy Ghost, in order that
we too may be changed from such weaklings and
become strong Christians? How little have we in us
of this Holy Spirit, how unwilling we are to suffer,
how prone to avoid all that is opposed to our natural
inclinations! This should be different; and it can
only be different by heeding the inspiration of the
Holy Ghost. With this intention and for this purpose
let us devote some time, now and then, to the
stirring up within us of the grace of the Holy Ghost.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Ghost, fill the hearts of Thy faithful,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Litany of the Holy Ghost.</head>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>For Private Devotion Only.</hi>)
</p>

<lg>
<l>Lord, have mercy on us.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Christ, have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Lord, have mercy on us.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Christ, have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Ghost, hear us.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Holy Ghost, graciously hear us.</hi></l>
<l>God the Father of heaven, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>God the Son, Redeemer of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>God the Holy Ghost, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Trinity, one God, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Ghost, Who proceedest from the Father and the Son, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Ghost, co-equal with the Father and the Son, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Promise of the Father, most loving and most bounteous, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Gift of the most high God, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Ray of heavenly light, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Author of all good, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Source of living water, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<pb n='357'/><anchor id='Pg357'/>
<l>Consuming fire, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Burning love, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Spiritual unction, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Spirit of truth and of power, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Spirit of wisdom and of understanding, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Spirit of counsel and of fortitude, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Spirit of knowledge and of piety, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Spirit of the fear of the Lord, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Spirit of compunction and of penance, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Spirit of grace and of prayer, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Spirit of charity, peace, and joy, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Spirit of patience, longanimity, and goodness, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Spirit of benignity, mildness and fidelity, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Spirit of modesty, continence, and chastity, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Spirit of adoption of the sons of God, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Ghost, the Comforter, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Ghost, the Sanctifier, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Who in the beginning didst move over the waters, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>By Whose inspiration spake the holy men of God, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Who didst overshadow Mary, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Who didst co-operate in the miraculous conception of the
Son of God, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Who didst descend upon Him at His baptism, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Who, on the day of Pentecost, didst appear in fiery tongues
upon the disciples of the Lord, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>By Whom we are also born again, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Who dwellest in us, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Who governest the Church, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Who fillest the whole world, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Holy Ghost, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That Thou wouldst renew the face of the earth, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That Thou wouldst shed abroad Thy light into our hearts, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That Thou wouldst write Thy law in our hearts, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That Thou wouldst inflame them with the fire of Thy love, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That Thou wouldst open to us the treasures of Thy grace, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That Thou wouldst teach us to ask for them according to
Thy will, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That Thou wouldst enlighten us with Thy heavenly
inspirations, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That Thou wouldst keep us to Thyself by Thy powerful
attractions, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That Thou wouldst grant to us the knowledge alone
necessary, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
</lg>

<pb n='358'/><anchor id='Pg358'/>

<lg>
<l>That Thou wouldst help us to love and bear with each other, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That Thou wouldst lead us in the way of Thy commandments, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That Thou wouldst make us obedient to Thy inspirations, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That Thou wouldst teach us to pray, and Thyself pray
within us, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That Thou wouldst clothe us with love and compassion
towards our brethren, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That Thou wouldst inspire us with a horror of evil, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That Thou wouldst direct us in the practice of good, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That Thou wouldst give us the grace of all virtues, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That Thou wouldst cause us to persevere in justice, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That Thou wouldst be Thyself our everlasting reward, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>Lamb of God, Who takest away the sins of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Spare us, O Lord!</hi></l>
<l>Lamb of God, Who takest away the sins of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Graciously hear us, O Lord!</hi></l>
<l>Lamb of God, Who takest away the sins of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us, O Lord!</hi></l>
<l>Holy Ghost, hear us,</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Holy Ghost, graciously hear us.</hi></l>
</lg>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Create a clean heart in us, O God.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And renew a right spirit within us.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Let Us Pray.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Grant, O merciful Father, that Thy divine Spirit may
enlighten, inflame, and cleanse our hearts; that He may
penetrate us with His heavenly dew, and make us fruitful in good
works. Through Jesus Christ Our Lord. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Hymns to the Holy Ghost.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Veni, Creator Spiritus.</head>

<lg>
<l>Come, O Creator, Spirit blest,</l>
<l>And in our souls take up Thy rest;</l>
<l>Come with Thy grace and heavenly aid</l>
<l>To fill the hearts which Thou hast made.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Great Paraclete, to Thee we cry,</l>
<l>O highest gift of God most high,</l>
<l>O Fount of life, O Fire of love,</l>
<l>And sweet anointing from above.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='359'/><anchor id='Pg359'/>

<lg>
<l>Thou in thy sevenfold gifts art known;</l>
<l>The finger of God's hand we own;</l>
<l>The promise of the Father Thou,</l>
<l>Who dost the tongue with pow'r endow.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Our senses kindle from above,</l>
<l>And make our hearts o'erflow with love;</l>
<l>With patience firm and virtue high</l>
<l>The weakness of our flesh supply.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Drive far from us the foe we dread,</l>
<l>And grant us Thy true peace instead;</l>
<l>So shall we not, with Thee for guide,</l>
<l>Turn from the path of life aside.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Oh, may Thy grace on us bestow</l>
<l>The Father and the Son to know,</l>
<l>And Thee through endless times confess'd</l>
<l>Of both th' eternal Spirit blest.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>All glory, while the ages run,</l>
<l>Be to the Father and the Son</l>
<l>Who rose from death; the same to Thee,</l>
<l>O Holy Ghost, eternally! Amen.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Come, Holy Ghost.</head>

<lg>
<l>Come, Holy Ghost, send down those beams,</l>
<l>Which sweetly flow in silent streams</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>From Thy bright throne above.</l>
<l>Come, Thou, the Father of the poor,</l>
<l>Thou bounteous source of all our store;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>Come, fire our hearts with love.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Come, Thou, of comforters the best,</l>
<l>Come, Thou, the soul's delightful guest,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>The pilgrim's sweet relief.</l>
<l>Thou art our rest in toil and sweat,</l>
<l>Refreshment in excessive heat,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>And solace in our grief.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>O sacred Light, shoot home Thy darts,</l>
<l>Oh, pierce the centre of these hearts,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>Whose faith aspires to Thee.</l>
<pb n='360'/><anchor id='Pg360'/>
<l>Without Thy Godhead nothing can</l>
<l>Have any price or worth in man;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>Nothing can harmless be.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Lord, wash our sinful stains away,</l>
<l>Water from heaven our barren clay;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>Our wounds and bruises heal.</l>
<l>To Thy sweet yoke our stiff necks bend,</l>
<l>To inflame our cold hearts Thy fire send;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>Our wandering feet repel.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Oh, grant Thy faithful, dearest Lord,</l>
<l>Whose only hope is Thy sure word;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>The seven gifts of Thy Spirit.</l>
<l>Grant us in life to obey Thy grace,</l>
<l>Grant us in death to see Thy face;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 4'>And endless joys inherit. Amen.</l>
</lg>

</div>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Act Of Oblation To The Holy Ghost.</head>

<p>
On my knees, before the great cloud of witnesses,
I offer myself, soul and body, to Thee, eternal
Spirit of God. I adore the brightness of Thy
purity; the unerring keenness of Thy justice; and
the might of Thy love. Thou art the strength and
the light of my soul. In Thee I live and move and
am. I desire never to grieve Thee by unfaithfulness
to grace; and I pray with all my heart to be kept
from the smallest sin against Thee. Make me faithful
in every thought: and grant that I may always
listen to Thy voice, and watch for Thy light, and
follow Thy gracious inspirations. I cling to Thee,
and give myself to Thee, and ask Thee by Thy compassion
to watch over me in my weakness. Holding
the pierced feet of Jesus, and looking at His five
wounds and trusting to His precious blood, and
adoring His opened side and stricken Heart, I implore
Thee, adorable Spirit, helper of my infirmity,
<pb n='361'/><anchor id='Pg361'/>
so to keep me in Thy grace that I may never sin
against Thee with the sin which Thou canst not forgive.
Give me grace, O Holy Ghost, Spirit of the
Father and the Son, to say to Thee, always and
everywhere, speak, Lord, for Thy servant heareth.
Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Office of the Holy Ghost.</head>

<p>
At Matins.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> The grace of the Holy Ghost illuminate our senses
and hearts.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> O Lord, open Thou my lips.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And my mouth shall declare Thy praise.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Incline unto my aid, O God.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> O Lord, make haste to help me.
</p>

<p>
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy
Ghost. As it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be,
world without end. Amen.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Hymn.</hi>
</p>

<lg>
<l>The Holy Ghost our souls invest</l>
<l>With grace that does o'ershade the best</l>
<l>Of Virgin maids, when from the spheres</l>
<l>An angel came to greet her ears.</l>
<l>The Word divine did flesh become,</l>
<l>And fruitful made a virgin womb.</l>
</lg>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Ant.</hi> Come, Holy Ghost, replenish the hearts of Thy faithful,
and kindle in them the fire of Thy love.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Send forth Thy Spirit, and they shall be created.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And Thou shalt renew the face of the earth.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
We beseech Thee, O Lord, that the virtue of Thy Holy
Spirit may be present within us, which may both purify
our hearts, and defend us from all adversities; through Our
Lord Jesus Christ, Thy Son, Who with Thee and the same
Holy Ghost liveth and reigneth. Amen.
</p>

<pb n='362'/><anchor id='Pg362'/>

<p>
At Prime.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> The grace of, etc. (as before).
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Hymn.</hi>
</p>

<lg>
<l>Christ, born of Mary, that blest Maid,</l>
<l>Was crucified, was dead, was laid</l>
<l>Within a tomb, from whence He rose,</l>
<l>And did His person soon disclose</l>
<l>To His disciples, in whose sight</l>
<l>He soar'd above the starry height.</l>
</lg>

<p>
The anthem, verse, response, and prayer as before.
</p>

<p>
At Tierce.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> The grace of, etc. (as before).
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Hymn.</hi>
</p>

<lg>
<l>God sent from heaven the Holy Ghost</l>
<l>Upon the day of Pentecost;</l>
<l>He did the apostles' minds inspire,</l>
<l>Inflaming them with tongues of fire.</l>
<l>He would not have them orphans left,</l>
<l>When of the sight of Christ bereft.</l>
</lg>

<p>
The anthem, verse, response, and prayer as before.
</p>

<p>
At Sext.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> The grace of, etc. (as before).
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Hymn.</hi>
</p>

<lg>
<l>With sevenfold grace God did enrich</l>
<l>The apostles, then, by means of which</l>
<l>They did both speak and understand</l>
<l>The language of each distant land.</l>
<l>To preach Christ's faith they then disperse</l>
<l>Themselves throughout the universe.</l>
</lg>

<p>
The anthem, verse, response, and prayer as before.
</p>

<p>
At None.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> The grace of, etc. (as before).
</p>

<pb n='363'/><anchor id='Pg363'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Hymn.</hi>
</p>

<lg>
<l>The consoling Spirit He</l>
<l>Entitled was true charity,</l>
<l>The gift of God, a fire inflamed,</l>
<l>The vivifying fountain named,</l>
<l>A spiritual unction, sevenfold grace,</l>
<l>A free gift of celestial race.</l>
</lg>

<p>
The anthem, verse, response, and prayer as before.
</p>

<p>
At Vespers.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> The grace of, etc. (as before).
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Hymn.</hi>
</p>

<lg>
<l>The right hand finger of Our Lord,</l>
<l>His spiritual power to us afford</l>
<l>A safe defence against all evil,</l>
<l>That harm'd we be not by the devil.</l>
<l>Protect us, nourish us, and bring</l>
<l>Us under shelter of Thy wing.</l>
</lg>

<p>
The anthem, verse, response, and prayer as before.
</p>

<p>
At Compline.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> The grace of, etc. (as before).
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Convert us, O God Our Saviour:
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And avert Thy anger from us.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Incline unto my aid, O God.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> O Lord, make haste to help me.
Glory be to the Father, etc.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Hymn.</hi>
</p>

<lg>
<l>Vouchsafe, O holy Paraclete,</l>
<l>To pour into our souls Thy light,</l>
<l>And to direct us in our ways,</l>
<l>That when to judgment God shall raise</l>
<l>The sleeping world, He bid us stand</l>
<l>Upon His right and saving hand.</l>
</lg>

<p>
The anthem, verse, response, and prayer as before.
</p>

<pb n='364'/><anchor id='Pg364'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Commendation.</hi>
</p>

<lg>
<l>These hours canonical, to Thee,</l>
<l>O Holy Ghost, addressed be,</l>
<l>With piously devoted heart.</l>
<l>That to our souls Thou mayest impart</l>
<l>Thy inspirations, and that we</l>
<l>May live in heaven eternally. Amen.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Novena to the Holy Ghost.</head>

<p>
First Day: Fruits Of Charity And Joy.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Veni Creator.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Let us prostrate ourselves before the majesty of
the most Holy Trinity, and uniting our dispositions
with those of our blessed Lady and the
holy apostles in the upper room at Jerusalem, let us
say one Our Father and one Hail Mary, to obtain,
by the merits of Jesus ascended, the fruits of the
Holy Ghost&mdash;charity and joy.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, Hail Mary.
</p>

<p>
O most holy Spirit, the Paraclete, we adore Thee
with all humility; and with the most lively affections
of our hearts, we beseech Thee to assist us in
this Thy novena, that we may rightly prepare ourselves
to receive Thy heavenly gifts. We cannot,
O divine Spirit, receive Thee without Thine own
aid preventing us. Without Thee we cannot please
Thee. Do Thou then, Who didst prepare the heart
of Mary to receive the Word Incarnate, vouchsafe so
to dispose our hearts that we may happily conceive
the blessed flames of Thy love. Amen.
</p>

<lg>
<l>O let us fall and worship Him,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>The love of Sire and Son,</l>
<l>The consubstantial breath of God,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>The co-eternal One!</l>
</lg>

<pb n='365'/><anchor id='Pg365'/>

<lg>
<l>Ah! see, how like the Incarnate Word,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>His blessed self He lowers</l>
<l>To dwell with us invisibly,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And make His riches ours.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Most loving Spirit! Mighty God!</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Sweet must Thy presence be,</l>
<l>If loss of Jesus can be gain,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>So long as we have Thee!</l>
</lg>

<p>
Come, Holy Spirit, fill the hearts of Thy faithful,
and kindle in them the fire of Thy love.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Send forth Thy spirit, and they shall be
created.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And Thou shalt renew the face of the earth.
</p>

<p>
Burn, O Lord, with the fire of Thy Holy Spirit
our reins and our hearts, that we may serve Thee
with chaste bodies, and please Thee with clean
hearts; through Our Lord Jesus Christ. In the
unity of the same. Amen.
</p>

<p>
May the blessing of almighty God, the Father,
Son, and Holy Ghost, descend upon us now, and
abide with us always. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Second Day: Fruits Of Peace And Patience.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Veni Creator.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Let us prostrate ourselves before the majesty of
the most Holy Trinity, and uniting our dispositions
with those of our blessed Lady and the holy
apostles in the upper room at Jerusalem, let us say
one Our Father and one Hail Mary, to obtain, by
the merits of Jesus ascended, the fruits of the Holy
Ghost&mdash;peace and patience.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, Hail Mary.
</p>

<p>
O sweetest and most dear Mother Mary, behold us
at thy feet, and having kissed them a thousand times
<pb n='366'/><anchor id='Pg366'/>
with the lips of our hearts, we humbly implore of
thee a favor more needful for us than all else in the
world. Since thou art the spouse of the Holy Ghost,
the dispenser of His treasures, and His sweet stewardess,
since thou hast been enriched beyond all
other creatures with His heavenly gifts, obtain for us,
as thou didst obtain for the apostles, His coming
into our hearts; and for this end obtain for us the
grace to imitate, so far as in us lies, the examples of
thy humility, thy purity, thy charity. Amen.
</p>

<p>
O let us fall and worship Him, etc.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Spirit, etc.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Send forth Thy Spirit, etc.
</p>

<p>
O God, to Whom every heart is open and every
will speaketh, and from Whom no secrets are hid,
cleanse the thoughts of our hearts by the infusion of
the Holy Ghost, that we may perfectly love Thee
and worthily praise Thee; through Our Lord Jesus
Christ. In the unity of the same. Amen.
</p>

<p>
May the blessing, etc.
</p>

<p>
Third Day: Fruits Of Benignity And Goodness.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Veni Creator.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Let us prostrate ourselves before the majesty of
the most Holy Trinity, and uniting our dispositions
with those of our blessed Lady and the
holy apostles in the upper room at Jerusalem, let us
say one Our Father and one Hail Mary, to obtain,
by the merits of Jesus ascended, the fruits of the
Holy Ghost&mdash;benignity and goodness.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, Hail Mary.
</p>

<p>
Most holy prince of the apostles, blessed St. Peter,
behold us at thy feet, to implore thy aid in obtaining
the Holy Spirit. We, indeed, have been unfaithful
<pb n='367'/><anchor id='Pg367'/>
to Our Redeemer, not three times only, as thou wert,
but thousands and thousands of times; so that we
could not hope that the spotless Dove would vouchsafe
to descend into our poor souls, stained with so many
sins; yet thine example, blessed apostle, gives us
boldness. Thou didst weep bitterly, and with thy
tears wert so cleaned as to receive all the gifts of the
divine Paraclete. We too desire to bewail our sins
with bitterest grief like thine, while we humbly implore
thine intercession to obtain for us, first of all,
cleanness of heart, and then the gift of the Holy
Ghost, for which we yearn most earnestly. Amen.
</p>

<p>
O let us fall and worship Him, etc.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Spirit, etc.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Send forth Thy Spirit, etc.
</p>

<p>
O God, Who hast taught the hearts of Thy faithful
by the light of the Holy Spirit, grant us by the
same Spirit to think the things that be right, and
ever to rejoice in His consolations; through the
same Jesus Christ. In the unity of the same. Amen.
</p>

<p>
May the blessing, etc.
</p>

<p>
Fourth Day: Fruits Of Long-Suffering And
Mildness.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Veni Creator.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Let us prostrate ourselves before the majesty of
the most Holy Trinity, and uniting our dispositions
with those of our blessed Lady and the holy
apostles in the upper room at Jerusalem, let us say
one Our Father and one Hail Mary, to obtain, by the
merits of Jesus ascended, the fruits of the Holy Ghost&mdash;long-suffering
and mildness.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, Hail Mary.
</p>

<p>
O blessed and happy apostles of Our Lord, who in
<pb n='368'/><anchor id='Pg368'/>
the upper room did receive the Holy Spirit with such
fulness that thou wert sweetly inebriated with divine
love, we congratulate thee with the most humble and
lively affection, and contemplate thy graces with a
holy envy. We beseech thee, by that love which thou
dost bear the Holy Spirit, Who thus filled thee with
His special benedictions, obtain for us efficacious
aid rightly to practise that brotherly concord, that
continual prayer, and that tender devotion to Mary,
whereby we can obtain, even as thou didst obtain,
the coming of the Holy Ghost. Amen.
</p>

<p>
O let us fall and worship Him, etc.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Spirit, etc.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Send forth Thy Spirit, etc.
</p>

<p>
May the infusion of the Holy Spirit, O Lord,
purify our hearts, and by the inward sprinkling of
His gracious dew make them fertile in all good works;
through Our Lord Jesus Christ. In the unity of the
same. Amen.
</p>

<p>
May the blessing, etc.
</p>

<p>
Fifth Day: Fruits Of Faith And Modesty.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Veni Creator.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Let us prostrate ourselves before the majesty of
the most Holy Trinity, and uniting our dispositions
with those of our blessed Lady and the holy
apostles in the upper room at Jerusalem, let us say
one Our Father and one Hail Mary, to obtain, by the
merits of Jesus ascended, the fruits of the Holy
Ghost&mdash;faith and modesty.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, Hail Mary.
</p>

<p>
O eternal Father, how shall we ever bless and
praise Thee sufficiently, or thank Thy goodness as we
ought? A thousand times blessed be Thine infinite
<pb n='369'/><anchor id='Pg369'/>
charity, Thine infinite providence, and Thine infinite
mercy, which moved Thee to repair our miseries, and
to give unto us a gift wherein is contained all the
good that proceedeth from Thee! Thou hast given
us also the Holy Ghost, Who proceedeth from Thy
will as Thine uncreated love. What can we seek
for more? And what shall we give unto Thee for
so great a gift? O Lord, vouchsafe, we beseech Thee,
of Thy clemency to take for Thine own all our understanding,
all our will, all ourselves, and that little
for all eternity. Amen.
</p>

<p>
O let us fall and worship Him, etc.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Spirit, etc.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Send forth Thy Spirit, etc.
</p>

<p>
We beseech Thee, O Lord, that the Paraclete, Who
proceedeth from Thee, may enlighten our minds,
and, according to the promise of Thy Son, may lead
us into all truth; through Our Lord Jesus Christ.
In the unity of the same. Amen.
</p>

<p>
May the blessing, etc.
</p>

<p>
Sixth Day: Fruits Of Continence And Chastity.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Veni Creator.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Let us prostrate ourselves before the majesty of
the most Holy Trinity, and uniting our dispositions
with those of our blessed Lady and the holy
apostles in the upper room at Jerusalem, let us say
one Our Father and one Hail Mary, to obtain, by the
merits of Jesus ascended, the fruits of the Holy Ghost&mdash;continence
and chastity.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, Hail Mary.
</p>

<p>
Most holy, most divine Spirit, if there be any
souls in the world more needful of Thine aid than
others, it is surely ours, blinded by passions, chilled
<pb n='370'/><anchor id='Pg370'/>
with obstinate lukewarmness, and defiled with a
thousand imperfections. Come, then, O divine
Spirit! come and enlighten us; kindle our fervor,
and destroy in us all that is displeasing in Thy sight.
The greater our miseries are, so much the more
glorious will be Thy triumph over our perversity.
Come and create in us new hearts, which shall have
all for God, and nothing for the world. Create in
us clean hearts, O God. Amen.
</p>

<p>
O let us fall and worship Him, etc.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Spirit, etc.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Send forth Thy Spirit, etc.
</p>

<p>
Grant unto Thy Church, O merciful God, that she,
being gathered together in the Holy Spirit, may be
in no wise disturbed by the incursions of her enemies;
through Our Lord Jesus Christ. In the unity of the
same. Amen.
</p>

<p>
May the blessing, etc.
</p>

<p>
Seventh Day: Descent Of The Holy Ghost Upon
Mary At The Annunciation.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Veni Creator.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Let us prostrate ourselves before the majesty of
the most Holy Trinity, and uniting our dispositions
with those of our blessed Lady and the
holy apostles in the upper room at Jerusalem, let us
say one Our Father and one Hail Mary in honor of
the descent of the Holy Ghost upon the ever-blessed
Mother of God at the Annunciation.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, Hail Mary.
</p>

<p>
Most divine Spirit, the Paraclete, we hardly dare
to beseech Thee to come into our souls, knowing well
how sinful and defiled they are. It seems an intolerable
boldness to invite God&mdash;yea, no less a one
<pb n='371'/><anchor id='Pg371'/>
than God!&mdash;to be a guest in a lodging so unclean.
Yet Thou vouchsafest graciously to reassure us by
that infinite goodness of Thine, whereby Thou dost
dispose with Thy prevenient graces those hearts which
Thou dost condescend to honor with Thy presence.
O blessed Spirit, deign to come into us, and delay
not Thy gracious coming, while we cease not calling
upon Thee and beseeching Thee to console us with
Thy long-expected coming. Amen.
</p>

<p>
O let us fall and worship Him, etc.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Spirit, etc.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Send forth Thy Spirit, etc.
</p>

<p>
We beseech Thee of Thy goodness, O Lord, to pour
into our minds the Holy Spirit, by Whose wisdom
we were created, and by Whose providence we are
ruled; through Our Lord Jesus Christ. In the unity
of the same. Amen.
</p>

<p>
May the blessing, etc.
</p>

<p>
Eighth Day: Descent Of The Holy Ghost Upon
Jesus At The Jordan.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Veni Creator.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Let us prostrate ourselves before the majesty of
the most Holy Trinity, and uniting our dispositions
with those of our blessed Lady and the holy
apostles in the upper room at Jerusalem, let us say
one Our Father and one Hail Mary in honor of the
descent of the Holy Ghost upon Jesus at the Jordan.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, Hail Mary.
</p>

<p>
Most adorable Trinity, we venture with all humility
and awe to approach the lofty throne of your exalted
majesty; with our heads prostrated in the dust
we adore you, and give you endless thanks for the
immense blessings which you have bestowed on us
<pb n='372'/><anchor id='Pg372'/>
miserable men. We thank Thee, O eternal Father,
and Thee, O divine Son, for the gift which you
have given us of the Holy Ghost; for in giving us
this Love, Who proceedeth from you, you have
given us your own selves. We thank Thee, O Holy
Ghost, Who art at once the gift and the giver of all
gifts, and we most earnestly beseech Thee to give us
Thyself. No other gift but Thine own self can satisfy
our souls, and having Thee alone we shall have
all things. But what can we give Thee in exchange
for so great benefits? O blessed Spirit, vouchsafe of
Thy mercy to accept for all eternity all our thoughts,
all our affections, and all ourselves. Amen.
</p>

<p>
O let us fall and worship Him, etc.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Spirit, etc.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Send forth Thy Spirit, etc.
</p>

<p>
Grant, we beseech Thee, O Lord, that we may
burn with that fire of the Holy Ghost which Our Lord
Jesus Christ sent upon the earth, and which He desired
to be vehemently enkindled; through Our Lord
Jesus Christ. In the unity of the same. Amen.
</p>

<p>
May the blessing, etc.
</p>

<p>
Ninth Day: Transfiguration And Ascension Of
Our Lord, And The Manifestations Of The
Holy Ghost.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Veni Creator.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Let us prostrate ourselves before the majesty of
the most Holy Trinity, and uniting our dispositions
with those of our blessed Lady and the
holy apostles in the upper room at Jerusalem, let us
say one Our Father and one Hail Mary in honor of
the transfiguration and ascension of our most dear
Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, and of the ineffable
<pb n='373'/><anchor id='Pg373'/>
love of the Holy Ghost in all His manifestations to
His creatures.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, Hail Mary.
</p>

<p>
Most holy Virgin and exalted Mother of God,
who wast above all creatures disposed to receive the
Holy Ghost, and who didst receive Him with greater
fulness than all others; dispose, we beseech thee, by
thy gracious aid, our cold hearts for the approaching
solemnity of Pentecost. We fly to thee, most
benignant Mother of sinners, that thou mayest obtain
for us a lively contrition for our sins; so that although
we cannot receive the Holy Ghost, as innocent,
like thyself, yet may we receive Him as true
penitents, together with those Gentile penitents who
received Him in the upper room. Grant this, most
holy Mother, not for our merits, for we have none,
but out of thine own exceeding goodness, and that
great love which thou bearest to the same blessed
Spirit, Who hast chosen thee for His Spouse. Amen.
</p>

<p>
O let us fall and worship Him, etc.
</p>

<p>
Come, Holy Spirit, etc.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Send forth Thy Spirit, etc.
</p>

<p>
Grant, we beseech Thee, almighty God, that the
splendor of Thy brightness may shine upon us; and
that the light of Thy light may, by the illumination
of the Holy Spirit, confirm the hearts of those who
by grace are regenerate; through Our Lord Jesus
Christ. In the unity of the same. Amen.
</p>

<p>
May the blessing of almighty God, Father, Son,
and Holy Ghost, descend upon us, and remain with
us always. Amen.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='374'/><anchor id='Pg374'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>September. The Immaculate Heart of Mary.</head>

<p>
This month is generally devoted to the consideration of the
Heart of Mary and her Seven Dolors. Not only should
we have a special devotion to the Sacred Heart of Jesus, but
there are good reasons for us to have a devotion to the heart of
Mary, so full of love for us, and to her dolors in connection
with the redemption of mankind. Her life was full of sorrow,
because she was actuated by the same sentiments as Our Lord
in His desire to redeem us from the slavery of Satan. What
heart, in fact, has ever been so intimately identified with that of
Jesus as was Mary's? He died on the cross, and Mary stood
beneath it, faithful to the end.
</p>

<p>
Our Lord, in His thirty years' ministry, labored among the
people, preaching and healing the sick, and Mary was certainly
in perfect sympathy with Him in His great work. We are
struck with the adorable goodness of His divine Heart, and for
the same reason we are attracted to the heart of Mary.
</p>

<p>
We will, then, during this month of September, pray to the
heart of our beloved Mother, setting before our minds the goodness
of that loving heart towards her children in this vale of
tears. Let us love and honor these two hearts so intimately
united; let us go to God the Father through the Heart of
Jesus: and to the divine Saviour through the heart of Mary.
We can obtain all things from the Father and the Holy Ghost
through the Heart of Jesus; and all things from the Son
through the heart of His blessed Mother.
</p>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Considerations and Prayers for Every Day.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>First Day.</head>

<p>
Nowhere in the Old Testament, do we approach
God more closely than in the book of Job,
where we see the great prophet of God enduring so
<pb n='375'/><anchor id='Pg375'/>
patiently the many sufferings that God has permitted;
and nowhere do we recognize Him as the
great Father good and kind to His children as in the
same book. Job was a figure of Christ. There is
something very holy in suffering endured in compliance
to the will of God. To-day, then, we are to
begin to think of Mary's sorrowful heart, and
we will contemplate how the mysterious ways of
Providence, the love of God, His mercy and kindness,
inflicts chastisements on the Mother of His
much loved Son. In the silence of the thirty years
of Christ on earth, in the silence of the hours of
agony on the cross, and in the silence of Mary underneath
the cross, we will see the silence of a
heart filled with sorrow, which God is imposing on
His children for the good of mankind. The Church
sets before our minds the seven sorrows of Mary,
telling us the principal causes of her great grief in
the life of Jesus.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O heart of Mary, I offer, I consecrate to thee my
heart! Thou shalt be the object of my veneration,
love and confidence; I will pay thee my devotions
every day; I will celebrate thy feasts with
joy; I will proclaim thy greatness and thy goodness
without ceasing. I will neglect no means of obtaining
for thee the honor and the homage which are due
unto thee. I will bring all the thoughts and affections
of my heart into conformity with thine, and I
will make it my duty to imitate thy virtues, especially
thy purity and thy humility. Vouchsafe, O
Mary, to open thy heart and receive me therein.
Amen.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='376'/><anchor id='Pg376'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Second Day.</head>

<p>
Mary's sole enjoyment in this world was the
presence of her divine Son. One never reads
of her enjoying what the world calls recreation. The
life of Mary was full of deep love and holy virtue, and
when trials came she patiently and sweetly endured
them for the love of God. It was meet, she knew,
that she should suffer, for her intimate connection
with the Son of God made suffering necessary. The
first sword of sorrow which pierced her heart were the
words of Simeon in the Temple. When the days of
her purification were passed, Mary, according to the
Law of Moses, came to the Temple, bearing in her
arms the Infant Jesus. The spirit of God manifested
in Jesus and Mary was a spirit of obedience to the
Law of the time in which they lived. In comparison
to Mary, the angels' purity became dim, and still she
subjected herself to the ceremony of purification.
The law presupposed impurity, but in Mary we know
that there was not the least stain of sin or imperfection.
Humbly she carried the Lord to the Temple; and
humbly, too, Joseph walked by her side, bearing the
two turtle doves for a sacrifice and a ransom for the
Child Jesus, which was also according to the Law.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Heart of Mary, I offer, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Third Day.</head>

<p>
The aged arms of the feeble old priest embraced
the Child, and all turned to enter the building.
Simeon bore the weight of the Creator of
<pb n='377'/><anchor id='Pg377'/>
heaven and earth, yet stood erect, strengthened and
consoled. The advent of that Child must have given
the old man a manifestation of the greatness and the
glory of heaven, and unspeakable joy must have shone
forth from his countenance. Then old Simeon remembered
the revelation which he had received from
the Holy Spirit: that he would not see death until he
had held in his arms the anointed of the Lord; and
now he bears Him, a feeble child. He finds it hard
to return that precious burden to Mary, who stands
there with motherly solicitude, yearning to receive
back again her beloved Child. But the flood-gates
of thanks to almighty God have been opened, and
Simeon's heart and lips break forth in a most sublime
and prophetic song. Zachary sang his <hi rend='italic'>Benedictus</hi>
at the circumcision of St. John; Mary sang her <hi rend='italic'>Magnificat</hi>
at Elizabeth's home, and now Simeon pours
forth his soul in a sublime prayer: <q>Now Thou dost
dismiss Thy servant, O Lord, according to Thy word
in peace: because my eyes have seen Thy salvation,
which Thou hast prepared before the face of all peoples:
a light to the revelation of the Gentiles, and
the glory of Thy people Israel.</q>
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Heart of Mary, I offer, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fourth Day.</head>

<p>
But now he changes his words of joy into a
sorrowful prophecy; the aged priest proceeds,
<q>Behold, this Child is set for the fall and
for the resurrection of many in Israel, and for a sign
which shall be contradicted: and thy own soul a
sword shall pierce that out of many hearts thoughts
<pb n='378'/><anchor id='Pg378'/>
may be revealed.</q> Mary was silent, but a cloud of
fear for the future passed over her, as Simeon foretold
all that was to afflict her. This was her first
sorrow: to be told that her Child was to be set for
the fall and redemption of many. A sea of trouble
flooded the soul of Mary; it seemed as if Jesus Himself
was causing that sorrow, and sent it directly into
her heart. But Mary was brave, as she was through
all her sorrows; there was no change in her. The
Light of the world had burst out, in the arms of
Simeon, and then followed a dreadful darkness.
Suddenly Mary found herself far from the joys of
Bethlehem in the darkness of Golgotha, but she was
just as resigned in her sorrow as she was content in
her joy. Mary understood now that the life of her
divine Son was to be a constant martyrdom, and that
the end of it would be the death on the cross.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Heart of Mary, I offer, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fifth Day.</head>

<p>
This was the great sacrifice that Mary made of her
beloved Son. She was resigned to the will of
God, though she knew the unavoidable future. She
had given to God a sacrifice in every way equal to
God; never had such a sacrifice been made from the
beginning of the world. She had surpassed the angels
in constant prayer, she had made a more acceptable
offering than the ancient priests of God: because
here was offered to God, Jesus Christ, the Second
Person of the Blessed Trinity, and the equal of God
the Father. It was in sympathy with her divine Son
<pb n='379'/><anchor id='Pg379'/>
and out of love for mankind that Mary offered this
holy sacrifice. He was her Son, and yet, from this
moment, she was not to possess Him as her own;
she was only to guard the Victim for the day of the
great sacrifice. Mary knew that it was not for her
joy and consolation that Jesus was born; it was for
a higher purpose that He came into the world. She
resigned all the joy His coming brought to her, and
offered Him a sacrifice to almighty God. Her heart
is full of wounds as she sees the persecutions of the
Jews, the infidelity and hardness of heart of many.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Heart of Mary, I offer, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Sixth Day.</head>

<p>
What lessons may we draw from the first sorrow
of Mary&mdash;from the prophecy of Simeon,
which changed her whole future life? The sorrows
of Mary lasted all her lifetime; she suffered without
looking for consolation; she suffered in the depth
of her heart, supported only by God's goodness.
Mary's griefs were intimately united to the sufferings
of Jesus; her sorrows were caused by His sufferings,
and with these Mary was in perfect sympathy. It is
in this way that we should live, and suffer our trials
and troubles in perfect union with those of Jesus
Christ, Our Lord and Saviour. We can make of
them a perfect sacrifice to God, simply because they
are connected with a little pain. We must consider
ourselves happy if God chastises us in this world, because
He intends to make us better; we suffer because
we have sinned; sin claims a punishment and we
should be satisfied to be punished for our sins, and
<pb n='380'/><anchor id='Pg380'/>
to give some atonement for them; they can hardly
be called sacrifices when they are well-merited punishments.
Still it is possible, even while we justly
suffer for our sins, to make our sufferings more meritorious
by uniting them to those of Our Lord. With
joy we can look up to the Mother of sorrows, and
suffer, like her, with patience and resignation.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Heart of Mary, I offer, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Seventh Day.</head>

<p>
The second sword of sorrow that pierced the
heart of Mary was the flight into Egypt.
Simeon was the author and instrument in the hand
of God of the first sorrow; Joseph was the great
figure in her second sorrow. It seems to heighten
whatever sufferings we may have to undergo when
they are caused by those whom we love. This was
the case now, and this sword of sorrow was so much
the more cruel as the visitation did not seem to come
from God, but from the cruelty of men. In this sorrow
the hand of man was raised against the Lord, to
put Him out of the way. It was like the crucifixion
on Mount Calvary, for His death was intended, and
on Calvary really executed. Mary and Joseph had
to make arrangements for the hasty journey to an unknown
country, in order to guard the Infant Jesus
from the persecutions of Herod. Mary had to go to
a country where there was no worship of the true
God; there were temples only of impure idolatry.
Alone, destitute, and wandering about, there was no
human consolation in this exile; she was deprived
of the practice of her religion, her spirit yearned
<pb n='381'/><anchor id='Pg381'/>
after the courts of the house of God, with the multitude
of worshippers gathered there on feast days;
she loved the ceremonies of the old synagogue. In
this secret sorrow she passed the days of her exile,
until God relieved her by permitting her to return.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Heart of Mary, I offer, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Eighth Day.</head>

<p>
The most sorrowful feeling produced in the heart
of Mary by her exile in Egypt, was caused by
the thought of the hatred man had conceived against
the Lord. This adorable Child carefully concealed
every manifestation of His divine power. There was
never on this earth a more lovable object than this
Child, and yet man had turned against Him from the
very first moment of His birth. It caused her heart
great suffering to see that mankind did not appreciate
the presence of the Incarnate Word; that it neglected
the consideration of God's goodness towards it. But
how much more does she suffer when she beholds Him
an object of persecution! He is a fugitive from the
society of those very people whom He comes to save.
All this Mary must have felt; for she loved her
divine Son with a great natural love, and watched
over Him with motherly solicitude. She loved Him
also with a divine love, for she knew He was the Son
of God, the Redeemer of mankind. This second
sword of sorrow was not the transient realization of a
mystery, which took place and then was over. No,
it was a lasting sorrow, spreading itself over her
whole life, for that persecution lasted until He died
on the cross amid the shouts of an unfeeling people.
</p>

<pb n='382'/><anchor id='Pg382'/>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Heart of Mary, I offer, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ninth Day.</head>

<p>
The flight into Egypt has ever been a fruitful
source of meditation for devout souls; it is a
beautiful but at the same time a sorrowful event in
the life of Christ. We, the descendants of the
heathens, date God's visitation to us from this time,
because Our Lord fled from His own people and
visited those who sat in darkness and in the shadow
of death. With His presence He sanctified the
heathen country, and with it all the dark continents
of the world where God's name was not known.
Amid these benighted people He, at least for a
time, found a refuge and found peace. The three
Wise Men had departed for their own country without
notifying Herod of the success of their search for the
King of Jerusalem. This stirred up his cruel spirit,
and with a murderous will he tried to destroy the
Child. The streets of Bethlehem were stained with
the blood of the little ones, but the Child Jesus, as
we know, was not harmed. What a sorrow was
caused by the coming of Christ! Mary knew of it,
for the sound of the wailings of desolate mothers had
been carried to her ears, and her heart must have been
touched by their cries. But to these children what
a happy day it was, on which they gave their lives
for the Infant Jesus! It was their baptism of blood;
the world was in sorrow, but there was joy in heaven.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Heart of Mary, I offer, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='383'/><anchor id='Pg383'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Tenth Day.</head>

<p>
At the command of the angel, Mary and Joseph
took the Child, and promptly entered upon
their journey to Egypt. Without anxiety for the
future, they were in no trepidation at leaving Bethlehem.
Mary wrapped the Child in clothing to
protect Him from the cold and pressed Him to her
bosom; they then went forth into the starlit night.
Poverty has not many preparations to make. The
secret path which they took in this flight was one indicated
by Providence. They at length arrived on
the way that led to the desert, passed the boundaries
of the land of Palestine, and wandered then, quietly
on, until they appeared but moving specks on the
wide expanse of the sands. Joseph and Mary cared
tenderly for the Infant Jesus on their journey. He
was the object of their continual love. Only scanty
provisions had they taken with them, and water was
scarce in such a region. At last they came to the
shores of the Red Sea, and saw the waters that rolled
between their own country and their destination.
The Holy Family remained several years in Egypt,
until the cruel tyrant, Herod, had died.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Heart of Mary, I offer, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Eleventh Day.</head>

<p>
The angel of the Lord again came to Joseph, and
bade him take the Child and its Mother and
return to the land of Israel, for those who had sought
after His life were dead. Nobody took much notice
<pb n='384'/><anchor id='Pg384'/>
of their departure; the Holy Family were too insignificant
from a human point of view to trouble any
one. They made the journey back again through
the desert with the same difficulties besetting the
way, until at length their eyes fell on the hills of
their own country: that land which God had chosen
for His people. They would gladly have entered
Jerusalem on their way to Nazareth, but Archelaus,
the son of Herod, was reigning there, and Joseph
considered it prudent to avoid that city. No doubt
he had recourse to prayer for enlightenment what to
do, and had received a response from heaven that he
should continue without delay his journey to Galilee;
then their journeyings were to be at an end, and
they could live peaceably and without fear in
Nazareth, a home chosen by God for the sojourn of
His divine Son for nearly thirty years.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Heart of Mary, I offer, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twelfth Day.</head>

<p>
In this sorrow of the Blessed Virgin, her flight into
Egypt, we should call to our mind first of all,
the poverty and destitution of the Holy Family in
their exile. We would not be her devout and loving
children, nor would we be followers of the
Lord, unless we showed a sympathy for the sufferings
endured during this event of Our Lord's life;
unless we impressed them on our minds by pious
meditation. This poverty which the Blessed Virgin
endured was a part of her sorrows, and we, her children,
will not forget what she must have felt for Our
<pb n='385'/><anchor id='Pg385'/>
Lord in these reduced circumstances. Think of the
hot winds of the desert, and the thirst they could
not quench when, weary and footsore, they travelled
on through that sandy waste. Another great concern
of Mary's was, that the sins of mankind had
deprived God of His glory in the incarnation of His
divine Son. Good souls feel this very much, that
God is not known and honored as He ought to be;
still there is no comparison between the feelings of
the saints and that of the Blessed Virgin. She lived
a divine life, and was intimately concerned in the
providence of God, and so felt the ingratitude of
man all the more.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Heart of Mary, I offer, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirteenth Day.</head>

<p>
What lesson may we draw from this second sorrow
of Mary in Egypt? An important one
is this, that sufferings and trials, if they come from
God, are far better for us than great consolations.
To be well convinced of this truth we must be thoroughly
imbued with a spirit of faith. Even pious
people rebel when they think they suffer without
having deserved it. How many, instead of profiting
by tribulations, become almost blasphemous in
their murmuring against God! We may be sure
that the little troubles sent us by God, rightly endured,
are better for our spiritual welfare than hours
of prayer in which the feeling of consolation has a
prominent part; who knows whether this luxury
which our souls enjoy is not the object that we look
<pb n='386'/><anchor id='Pg386'/>
for, without regard to our real good or the glory of
God?
</p>

<p>
We also learn from the flight into Egypt that we
must not question the designs of Providence in our
sufferings. Would we find it amiss if God had
worked miracles so that the Holy Family might at
least have comfort? But no, He seemed to afflict
them without mercy.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Heart of Mary, I offer, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fourteenth Day.</head>

<p>
The third sorrow that our blessed Mother endured
was the loss of the Child Jesus for three
days. According to the Law, the Jews living in the
neighborhood of the holy city had to make a pilgrimage
three times a year, in order to celebrate the
great feasts. They had to go on the feast of the
Pasch, which was instituted to commemorate the
deliverance from the bondage of Egypt; the second
feast was that of the weeks, corresponding to our
Pentecost, and the third feast was the feast of the
tabernacles, where the devout of the nation thanked
God for all the mercies shown them during the year.
It was at one of these feasts of the Passover, or
Pasch, that Jesus, Mary, and Joseph journeyed to
Jerusalem. The Pasch must have been a feast of
peculiar significance to the members of the Holy
Family, for they knew what it really meant to them.
There was to come a Pasch at which the principal
actor of the feast would be Jesus, Our Lord. He
certainly had that last Passover before His mind, and
no doubt St. Joseph was also informed of the future.
<pb n='387'/><anchor id='Pg387'/>
Mary, certainly, could not be ignorant of that great
event in the future life of her divine Son.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Heart of Mary, I offer, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fifteenth Day.</head>

<p>
As they journeyed on to Jerusalem, that future
Passover of the sorrowful Passion must have
been pictured vividly in their minds. They saw the
boy of twelve years at their side, and they loved the
Saviour of mankind with a sincere, adoring love;
more and more did they love their good Jesus, Who
was already making a sacrifice of Himself to His
heavenly Father. They remained during the days
of the feast in the neighborhood of the Temple, fulfilling
the duties of their religion; and when the
time came for their departure, Mary and Joseph
travelled separately, Joseph with the men and Mary
with the women. Mary thought that Jesus was with
Joseph, and Joseph thought that He was with Mary.
They journeyed a whole day without being aware of
His absence; but when evening came and they, on
inquiry, found that the Child was not with them,
they were overwhelmed with grief. They returned
to Jerusalem, and for three days sought Him through
the city; at length, on the third day, they went to
the Temple, and there they found the divine Child,
sitting among the doctors, as the Scriptures say,
teaching them, and asking them questions.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Heart of Mary, I offer, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='388'/><anchor id='Pg388'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Sixteenth Day.</head>

<p>
During the days of His sojourn in Jerusalem,
what was the occupation of the Lord? He
prayed long and fervently in that Temple, in that
Holy of holies, in that house which His Father had
chosen as His dwelling-place on earth. Our Lord's
whole occupation was prayer. He prayed for the
people of God, that they might acknowledge Him as
the Redeemer of mankind. The doctors of the Law
were there, picturing to themselves and to their audience
the greatness of the coming Messias, from the
very Scriptures which described His humiliations and
modesty. Did Our Lord set them right by making
them explain the discrepancies which they could
not help noticing in the prophecies? The modesty
of the Lord won all hearts, and so His time passed
in the service of God. Mary and Joseph ran with
joy to their beloved Son, and the Mother, embracing
Him, remonstrated with Him, saying, <q>Son, why
hast Thou done so to us? Behold, Thy father and I
have sought Thee, sorrowing.</q> Then He answered,
<q>Did you not know that I must be about My Father's
business?</q> He then went home to Nazareth with
them, there to continue to do the will of His Father.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Heart of Mary, I offer, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Seventeenth Day.</head>

<p>
The sorrow of this event consisted mainly in the fact
that Mary and Joseph had lost, perhaps through
their own fault, the Child Jesus. They did not
<pb n='389'/><anchor id='Pg389'/>
know whether it would be according to divine Providence
that He would ever return to them; they
thought that perhaps He had gone to the desert, as
had St. John. This separation caused Mary terrible
agony. It shows us how hard it is to lose Jesus, Our
Lord, because He is absolutely necessary to us. By
sin we lose Jesus; by love we regain Him, and the danger
that we may again lose Him is enough to make us
feel very sad. Mary's great suffering in this separation
makes us understand the magnitude of the evil of
losing Jesus. But how little do we feel that separation,
especially when it is caused by our sins! It is
always our own fault when Jesus goes away from us.
He would not leave us, only that we force Him from
us, and the means we use to conquer God, to make
Him capitulate, is sin. To bring Him back again
we must be active in our search, regret the evil we
have done, and weep tears of real sorrow. Thus we
invite our friend Jesus back again into our soul.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Heart of Mary, I offer, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Eighteenth Day.</head>

<p>
Let us now consider the fourth sword of sorrow
which pierced the heart of Mary. No wonder
we venerate in Mary a goodness of heart so great. We
have seen how this noble heart has been moved by
the contemplation of the future sorrows of her Son;
how she was so intimately united with Him, that she
suffered for our sake as He did. And we know that
Our Lord suffered and died for no other cause than
our redemption. In the fourth sorrow we come
<pb n='390'/><anchor id='Pg390'/>
closer to the Passion. We are transferred to the
time when Jesus, after the Last Supper, was apprehended
by the cohort, judged by Pilate, and delivered
over to the Jews for crucifixion. The cross
was laid on His bleeding shoulders, and, crushed
under its weight, He painfully makes His way towards
Calvary in company, or rather in a procession
of curiosity-seekers, of friends and of foes; the object
of derision to some, of pity to others. On His
journey He meets His holy Mother. The cruel
soldiers allow the meeting, and a temporary rest. A
painful scene takes place between the Mother, and
the Son Who is being led to execution.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Heart of Mary, I offer, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Nineteenth Day.</head>

<p>
Mary enjoyed the wonderful grace of being intimately
united with Our Lord in His sufferings.
She was present in spirit when Jesus was in the agony
in the Garden of Gethsemani. She knew of the betrayal
of Judas; she felt the ingratitude of that
apostle, and the pain it gave the good Master.
Mary sympathized with Jesus when He was scourged
and cruelly treated the night of His Passion. She
could count the strokes of the scourges; she saw the
soldiers crown Him with thorns and strike Him in
the face. She knew that Our Lord was placed before
the people that they might look on His miserable
condition, and feel compassion for Him; and
she heard the voice of Pilate, <q>Behold the man!</q>
She heard the mob demand His death, not satisfied
<pb n='391'/><anchor id='Pg391'/>
by the tortures inflicted upon Him. Into the depths
of her soul went the cry, <q>Crucify Him, crucify
Him! His blood be upon us, and upon our children.</q>
St. John, the beloved disciple, came at last
to the Blessed Virgin, and brought the news of the
condemnation of the Lord and of His immediate
crucifixion; they went out to meet Him in His painful
journey to Calvary.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Heart of Mary, I offer, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twentieth Day.</head>

<p>
We have seen how sufferings of the Lord were
communicated to Mary. Mary's tears are
mingled with His. Have we no share in them? Are
we not to think of them, and feel them? We have
been the cause of Mary's sufferings, because being
sinners we brought about the death of Jesus Christ.
Should we not then, when we have recognized this
fact, make the contemplation a source of shame, repentance,
and sorrow? We have been the cause of
this grief to Mary, and certainly we should, at least,
have a devotion to her sorrowful heart. How can
we do this better than by performing all our daily
actions for the greater glory of God? Every day is
a step nearer eternity, and every day we should meet
Jesus, and work with Him. When we are in doubt
and perplexity Jesus approaches us of His own accord,
as He did the disciples on their way to Emmaus.
What crosses shall we meet on our way each day?
We know not. But this we know, that when we meet
Jesus, we will meet our cross, for He is bearing His.
How many meet the Lord, but turn away from Him
<pb n='392'/><anchor id='Pg392'/>
when they see Him in such a pitiable condition?
They would rather be with Him in His joy than in
His sorrow.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Heart of Mary, I offer, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-first Day.</head>

<p>
The world is a mystery. Life, death, time, good,
evil and miseries, are mysteries to us. The
crucifix is the solution of them all. It is a consoling
contemplation when we are in trouble. When we
have sinned it brings tears of repentance to our eyes,
and gives us the hope of salvation; it is a source of
love; it is a light in darkness; it is a solemn exhortation
without words. O blessed cross, cause of the
fifth sorrow to Mary! help us to have a joy in the
cross in this life, that we may be led by it to a happy
eternity. The way of the cross is now ended; the
summit of Mount Calvary is reached about midday.
The city of David is close by and the crown of glory
of this city is now to be taken away. But the life of
Christ is to crown it by its end, making it a still
holier city than it ever has been. The soldiers tear
the garments off the body of Jesus, and prepare for
the execution by nailing Him to the cross. Mary
hears the strokes of the hammer as the nails are driven
through His hands and feet into the wood. Every
stroke is a dreadful wound inflicted on her sorrowing
heart; who should feel it more than this Mother witnessing
the execution of her Son?
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Heart of Mary, I offer, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='393'/><anchor id='Pg393'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-second Day.</head>

<p>
The first hour of the three during which the Lord
hung on the cross was passed in silent endurance;
in prayer, in offering the sacrifice of His life
for all mankind. Then darkness begins to gather.
Mary approaches the cross, and stands near the suffering
Saviour. The executioners mock Him, they
cast lots for His garments; their cruel words and their
coarse jokes fall on Mary's ears and fill her soul with
pain. Mary was to see and feel everything, as well
as the Lord. The whole hour passed, and Jesus was
silent; the second hour began its martyrdom and we
hear the voice of Christ, <q>Father, forgive them, for
they know not what they do,</q> a prayer which
soothed the heart of Mary, for it was the voice of
mercy. The third hour Jesus began to grow weaker;
the loss of blood produced a great thirst, and He
cried out, <q>I thirst.</q> And Mary knew that Jesus
thirsted for souls; and that she could help this thirst
by her prayers. Thus during those three hours Mary
stood beneath the cross; it was the fifth sword of
sorrow that pierced her soul.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Heart of Mary, I offer, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-third Day.</head>

<p>
At this time Mary became our Mother, for Jesus
recommended us to her in the person of St.
John; it was His last will and testament; it was
the end of thirty years' communication between
Mother and Son. Mary, like Jesus, had at heart the
<pb n='394'/><anchor id='Pg394'/>
salvation of mankind, and now she feels authorized
to have an interest in all humanity. She takes all
under her protection; new sources of inexhaustible
love were opened in her heart. Our Lord gave her the
grace to love humankind as He loved them. Another
circumstance to be considered in the sword of sorrow
which Mary endured beneath the cross was her silence.
She did not faint, nor cry out in despair. She was
perfectly resigned to the will of God. What God
demanded of her she performed without a murmur,
and so she stood at her sorrowful post, determined to
do His holy will as she had done it all her life; the
more God asked of her, the more she was willing to
give.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Heart of Mary, I offer, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-fourth Day.</head>

<p>
There is a great lesson in this sorrow of Mary:
that we must learn how to bear our crosses in
this life. We must not throw them away; we must
not come down from Calvary until we are crucified,
and then we and the cross are inseparable. Calvary
is a place where much impatience is manifested;
many go up well enough, and carry their cross with
perseverance, but when it comes to lie down on that
cross, and be nailed to it, they go away again, forgetting
their duty, though it was duty that brought
them that far; they are only half-crucified souls. We
do not rob them of the merit of what they have done,
but they might have done more. They have lost their
courage because they did not observe the silence
that Jesus preserved in His crucifixion; they were
<pb n='395'/><anchor id='Pg395'/>
too much distracted; silence is the atmosphere of
the cross. We shall contemplate two individuals on
Calvary: Jesus and Mary. They teach us how to
die. Jesus would certainly have spared His Mother
the scenes of His sufferings unless it were good for
her to witness them. She is to be with Jesus in His
hour of death; she is also to be with us in our last
hour. Then we too will thirst, and our soul will
yearn for strength, which we will draw from the last
sacraments and from Mary's presence.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Heart of Mary, I offer, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-fifth Day.</head>

<p>
We can never understand the crucifixion unless
we study it under Mary's guidance, because
she is part of it and it cannot be represented without
her. Oh, let us have a filial pity for her in her sorrows;
let us feel a sympathy for her, especially as
she stands beneath the cross. Let us pray to this
sorrowful Mother, and imitate her in the very important
lesson there taught: that is, to pray for the
poor departing souls. Every moment, throughout
the world, several souls pass from this life; it is their
last opportunity to make their peace with God. Let
us have the devotion, which is so charitable, to pray
for the departing souls and recommend them to the
mercy of God. If our prayers may be effective for
a special grace in their regard, why should we not
pray with fervor and for the love of God? Send
Mary to them; she is continually saving souls. We
<pb n='396'/><anchor id='Pg396'/>
also should be zealous to save them by frequently
praying to God for this intention.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Heart of Mary, I offer, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-sixth Day.</head>

<p>
The sixth sorrow in the life of the Blessed Virgin
was the taking down of Our Lord from the
cross. We read in the Scriptures, <q>They shall look
upon Him Whom they have pierced.</q> Joseph of
Arimathea and Nicodemus boldly, as is said, went
to Pilate, and demanded the body of Christ, that
they might give Him a decent burial. They drew
the nails from the wounds of the hands and feet of
Our Lord, and respectfully took Him down from the
cross and placed Him in the arms of Mary. With
great respect did these men and their servants approach
the cross and handle the body. Who can
describe their feelings during the pious work in
which they were engaged? It was like the respect
and adoration we show to the Blessed Sacrament.
Each instrument of the Passion, still moist with the
blood of Jesus, was laid near the sorrowful Mother,
who kissed them and preserved them. Who had a
better right to them? They were the first and
holiest relics which the Church venerated. Now
the body has been lowered far enough, that St. John
may let His head rest on his shoulder. Mary
knelt, and stretching out her arms she received the
precious weight of His body on her breast. At
last she held Him again, Whom as an Infant she
had fondled in her arms! O Mary, now thou
<pb n='397'/><anchor id='Pg397'/>
lookest upon the beautiful but disfigured face of
thy Jesus!
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Heart of Mary, I offer, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-seventh Day.</head>

<p>
We must admire in Mary her wonderful steadfastness
in her terrible sorrows. She might have
allowed herself to be so overwhelmed with grief and
despair that she would break out into shrieks and lamentations
to relieve her heart; but she was a silent,
kind, sweet sufferer. The saints have always loved
the Passion of Our Lord, and have become
familiar with it. Mary was familiar with it;
she had suffered just this very torture, long before
receiving the body of her beloved Son in her
arms after the crucifixion. She knew it was the
will of God, and that was the only thing she regarded.
She was resigned to its operations. We
too must think of the Passion of Our Lord, and
meditate upon it until we grow as familiar with it,
and love it, as did the saints. Why should we do
so? Because we have sinned, and by sin have
caused all these sufferings to Our Lord and to His
blessed Mother, Mary. She was innocent of the
sufferings of her Son; she had never committed a
fault. We, who are guilty of sin, ought to do
penance, ought to suffer, and be resigned to both.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Heart of Mary, I offer, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='398'/><anchor id='Pg398'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-eighth Day.</head>

<p>
The burial of Our Lord was the source of the
seventh sorrow of Mary. When the tomb
had been prepared, the sheets spread out, and the
ointments placed, Joseph, Nicodemus, John, Magdalen,
and Mary, the Mother, in the depth of the night
wended their way slowly from the height of Calvary,
to the burial place of Joseph, which was just outside
the walls of the city. Everything at the burial proceeded
with great care and caution and in silence,
the scene lit up by the dim light of a solitary torch.
There lay the body, pale in death; the eyes closed,
the lips set. All bent down in adoration before that
adorable body. Joseph, then, with the help of the
others, rolled the stone to the mouth of the tomb,
and silently went to the city. Mary and John again
visited the place of crucifixion, and gathered up the
nails and crown of thorns; they also, that Friday
night, went into the city of Jerusalem. The guard
of soldiers sent by Pilate were already at the tomb,
and sealed the stone so that the least interference
might be detected.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Heart of Mary, I offer, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-ninth Day.</head>

<p>
What was particularly sorrowful, in this seventh
affliction, was the great sense of desertion
that Mary felt, as if left by God; her good and
adorable Son gone from her sight and buried. The
days of the Passion, the death and the burial, must
<pb n='399'/><anchor id='Pg399'/>
have so exhausted the life of the good Virgin that
now she was near giving up the spirit. Every suffering
that she had to endure seemed to culminate in
this supreme moment. It is the last sword of Simeon's
prophecy. No one can describe the sufferings
of Mary, and no one can describe the sanctity
with which she bore up in all these trials. But, O
Simeon, thou didst assert that having seen the Lord,
thou wert now ready to leave this world. But this
last sorrow did not announce the end to Mary; she
was to suffer on for years. There seems to be nothing
human or frail in Mary's sufferings. Her character
grows upon us, in nobility most exalted, and
in patience never wavering. Man shows his feebleness
at some time, but Mary seemed to grow stronger,
purer, and more beautiful.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Heart of Mary, I offer, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirtieth Day.</head>

<p>
What lessons are we to learn from this seventh
sorrow of Mary, the culmination of all her
troubles and trials? One is that we should love
God and be faithful to Him, with a more unselfish
attachment. Mary left the tomb in which Our
Lord was hidden from her sight without a murmur,
resigned to the will of God. She might have persuaded
herself that she should remain there, but
God desired it otherwise, and she departed from the
place which held her all. It is hard, but true, that
God's will must be done in everything. Another
lesson from the contemplation of the sorrow caused
<pb n='400'/><anchor id='Pg400'/>
by the separation from Our Lord was the bitterness
of the separation. Oh, how bitter it is to be away
from Jesus! Is there anything to make up for that
loss? Terrible is the darkness of the hour when
Christ is absent. It is a hell upon earth. And
thus we have made a history of the life of Mary,
and have followed her through her wearisome pain,
until now we leave her ripe for heaven. The time
has come in which God will call her to an eternity
of honor and glory.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Heart of Mary, I offer, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Exercise in Honor of the Sorrowful Heart
of Mary.</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Incline unto my aid, O God.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> O Lord, make haste to help me.
</p>

<p>
Glory be to the Father, etc.
</p>

<p>
1. O most sorrowful Mary, I compassionate the
grief of thy tender heart at the prophecy of the holy
old man Simeon. O beloved Mother, through that
afflicted heart obtain for me the virtue of humility
and the gift of the holy fear of God.
</p>

<p>
Hail Mary.
</p>

<p>
2. O most sorrowful Mary, I compassionate those
afflictions which thy most sensitive heart endured
during the flight into Egypt and the dwelling there.
O beloved Mother, by thy deeply troubled heart
obtain for me the virtue of liberality, especially
towards the poor, and the true gift of piety.
</p>

<p>
Hail Mary.
</p>

<p>
3. O most sorrowful Mary, I compassionate that
<pb n='401'/><anchor id='Pg401'/>
intense distress which thy anxious heart experienced
in the loss of thy dearest Jesus. O beloved Mother,
by that deeply troubled heart obtain for me the
virtue of chastity and the gift of knowledge.
</p>

<p>
Hail Mary.
</p>

<p>
4. O most sorrowful Mary, I compassionate the
consternation which thy maternal heart experienced
when thou didst meet Jesus bearing His cross. O
beloved Mother, by that deeply troubled heart obtain
for me the virtue of patience and the gift of
fortitude.
</p>

<p>
Hail Mary.
</p>

<p>
5. O most sorrowful Mary, I compassionate that
martyrdom which thy generous heart endured in
witnessing the last agony of Jesus. O beloved
Mother, by that martyred heart obtain for me the
virtue of temperance and the gift of counsel.
</p>

<p>
Hail Mary.
</p>

<p>
6. O most sorrowful Mary, I compassionate that
wound which thy mournful heart endured from the
lance which tore the side of Jesus and wounded His
most loving Heart. O beloved Mother, by thy
pierced heart obtain for me the virtue of fraternal
charity and the gift of understanding.
</p>

<p>
Hail Mary.
</p>

<p>
7. O most sorrowful Mary, I compassionate the
convulsion which thy most loving heart experienced
at the burial of Jesus. O beloved Mother, by this
extreme grief of thy sacred heart obtain for me the
virtue of diligence and the gift of wisdom.
</p>

<p>
Hail Mary.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Pray for us, O most sorrowful Virgin.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> That we may be made worthy of the promises
of Christ.
</p>

<pb n='402'/><anchor id='Pg402'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Let Us Pray.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Grant, we beseech Thee, O Lord Jesus Christ,
that the Blessed Virgin Mary, Thy Mother,
may intercede for us with Thy clemency, now and
at the hour of our death, who at the hour of Thy
Passion was pierced in her most holy soul by the
sword of sorrow; grant this, O Jesus Christ, Saviour
of the world, Who, with the Father and the Holy
Ghost, liveth and reigneth, world without end.
Amen.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
A perpetual indulgence of three hundred days, applicable to
the dead, to all Christians every time they shall recite the above
exercise in honor of the sorrowful heart of the most holy Virgin.
</p>

</quote>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Rosary or Chaplet of the Seven Dolors.</head>

<p>
Act Of Contrition.
</p>

<p>
O my Lord, Thou Who alone art most worthy of
my love, behold me standing before Thy divine
presence utterly overwhelmed by the many grievous
injuries I have done Thee. I ask Thy pardon for
them with my whole heart, repenting of them purely
for love of Thee, and, at the thought of Thy great
goodness, hating and loathing them above all other
evils of this life. As I would rather have died a
thousand times than have offended Thee, so now I
am most firmly resolved to lose my life rather than
offend Thee again. My crucified Jesus, I firmly
purpose to cleanse my soul as soon as possible by
Thy most precious blood in the Sacrament of Penance.
And thou, most tender Virgin, Mother of
mercy and Refuge of sinners, do thou obtain for me
the pardon of sin by virtue of thy bitter pains;
<pb n='403'/><anchor id='Pg403'/>
whilst praying according to the mind of so many
holy Pontiffs in order to obtain the indulgences
granted to this, thy holy Rosary, I hope thereby to
obtain remission of all pains due to my sins. Amen.
</p>

<p>
First Dolor: The prophecy of Simeon. One
Our Father and seven Hail Marys.
</p>

<p>
Second Dolor: The flight into Egypt. One
Our Father and seven Hail Marys.
</p>

<p>
Third Dolor: The loss of Jesus. One Our
Father and seven Hail Marys.
</p>

<p>
Fourth Dolor: Her meeting Jesus carrying His
cross. One Our Father and seven Hail Marys.
</p>

<p>
Fifth Dolor: Her standing beneath the cross on
Calvary. One Our Father and seven Hail Marys.
</p>

<p>
Sixth Dolor: Her receiving on her lap the sacred
body of Jesus. One Our Father and seven Hail
Marys.
</p>

<p>
Seventh Dolor: Her witnessing the burial of the
sacred body of Her Son. One Our Father and
seven Hail Marys.
</p>

<p>
In honor of the tears shed by Our Lady in these
dolors, three Hail Marys.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Pray for us, O most sorrowful Virgin.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> That we may be made worthy of the promises
of Christ.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Let Us Pray.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Grant, we beseech Thee, O Lord Jesus Christ,
that the Blessed Virgin, Thy Mother, may
intercede for us with Thy clemency, now and at the
hour of our death, who in the hour of Thy Passion
was pierced in her most holy soul by the sword of
sorrow; grant this, O Jesus Christ, Saviour of the
world, who with the Father and the Holy Ghost,
liveth and reigneth, world without end. Amen.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='404'/><anchor id='Pg404'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>October. The Angels.</head>

<p>
Both in the Old and in the New Testaments the Holy
Scriptures teach us that the angels exist and protect us:
many examples are cited and facts related, from which we may
conclude that this is so. True, we do not see the angels, and
rare are the actual manifestations of their power, or their existence;
hence some people deny that order of spirits.
</p>

<p>
But by a merciful dispensation of divine Providence, we know
that the angels are active among us, that they shield us from
evil, and draw heavenly favors upon us. They are ever ready
to serve God; there are also spirits who care for each individual
on earth&mdash;guardian angels.
</p>

<p>
Suarez is of opinion that Our Lord, in His adorable humanity,
had a number of angels to wait on Him. Our guardian
angel does his work not less effectively, for Our Lord tells us
to be in dread of scandalizing a child, because of his angel who
is always at his side.
</p>

<p>
At the time of the birth of Our Lord a multitude of the
heavenly choir sang, <q>Glory to God on high, and peace to men
of good-will.</q> During this month we celebrate the feast of the
angel guardian; it has been considered so important that the
whole month is set aside to the devotion of the angels. The
Church encourages us in this devotion, for in the breviary she
has authorized a votive office in honor of these heavenly spirits,
on every Monday when there is no special festival to be celebrated,
so that we may be continually reminded of the great
truth that our guardian angel is always at our side.
</p>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Considerations and Prayers for Every Day.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>First Day.</head>

<p>
The name angel means a messenger; this name
is given to these spirits because they have been
<pb n='405'/><anchor id='Pg405'/>
used by almighty God for that duty; they have been
sent by God to disclose His will to man. God could,
of course, do His will by His own power. He needs
no angel, but for that matter He needs no creature.
Still, in His infinite kindness, He called rational
creatures into existence, and has given them a most
honorable employment. Their ordinary work is like
what our own will be, or like that of the saints now
in heaven: <q>to see, love, bless, and enjoy God forever
by a blessed immortality.</q> Penetrate, then, in
your mind, the eternity of time, when God in His
love created pure rational creatures, who had a spirit
like His own, intelligence unencumbered with a
body, and having no necessities. He placed them
near His throne in heaven, and now they announce
in their celestial adornments the omnipotence, love,
and wisdom of their almighty Creator. They sing
perpetually of the sanctity of God, and render Him
glory. <q>Holy, holy, holy, is the Lord God of
armies.</q> Hence the Council of Lateran teaches authoritatively,
<q>God created together, at the beginning
of time, out of nothing, both classes of creatures,
spiritual and corporal, the angelic and material,
and then the human.</q>
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<lg>
<l>O angel of God, my guardian dear,</l>
<l>To whom His love commits me here.</l>
<l>Ever this day be at my side,</l>
<l>To light, to guard, to rule, and guide.</l>
</lg>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Second Day.</head>

<p>
God, says the great preacher Bossuet, wished to
create spirits like Himself, pure and immaterial,
<pb n='406'/><anchor id='Pg406'/>
living by intelligence and love. Spirits that
would know and love Him as He knows Himself and
loves Himself, and who would be happy in simply
knowing and loving this first great Being. For that
very reason they bear on their natures a divine character,
after God's image and likeness. O God, who
can doubt that Thou could create spirits without a
body? or is there need of a body that one might understand,
love and be happy? Thou, O God, Who
art Thyself a pure spirit, art Thou not incorporal and
immaterial? Are not intelligence and love spiritual
and immaterial operations, which can be exercised
without a body? The creation of the angels, then,
was a manifestation of God's omnipotence, as it is
also omnipotence to call human individuals into existence,
and to give them knowledge, so that they
can serve and glorify God.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O angel of God, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Third Day.</head>

<p>
The angels are part of the universal creation outside
of God, and were created in the beginning
of time. St. Thomas, the great theologian,
says <q>The angels are a part of the universal creation,
and form a regular grade in that creation.</q>
Now no part can be perfect when separated from
its belongings, and we are sure God's works are
perfect; but the angelic world would have stood by
itself, separated and isolated from the rest of creation,
if it had been made before the sensible world.
The number of angels is very great. God did not
<pb n='407'/><anchor id='Pg407'/>
stint Himself in giving lavishly of His benefits.
These pure spirits inhabit space, and move about in
choirs of immense numbers. <q>Thousands upon
thousands ministered to Him, and ten thousand
times a hundred thousand stood before Him.</q>&mdash;Dan.
vii. 10. These figures certainly point to an
almost infinite number. Count if you can the sands
on the seashore, the stars in the firmament, and when
you think you have reached a definite calculation,
you are far below the real existing number. God
pours out lavishly the abundance of His omnipotence
and love. Prodigality is a characteristic of all the
divine works. We cannot meditate on the countless
multitude of the angels without astonishment.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O angel of God, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fourth Day.</head>

<p>
God has not made all the angels alike. We know
from the Scriptures that there are distinctions
which we do not exactly understand. Some are angels,
others archangels, others dominations, virtues,
etc. St. Jerome writes, <q>Among the invisible creatures
there is a manifold and an indefinite diversity.</q>
It is natural to suppose that not only did God exert
His omnipotence in the production of myriads of
beautiful spirits, not only did He make them the
most perfect of their kind for the purpose for which
they were intended, but that He also diversified
them. God almighty not only gave these intellectual
beings existence, but He also gave them a
knowledge by which, with their own intelligence,
<pb n='408'/><anchor id='Pg408'/>
they could rise to a most exalted contemplation of
His infinity. What glory do not these intelligent
beings bring to God's throne! What beautiful homage
do they not pour forth in His presence! What
exultation there must be in their study of God, constantly
discovering something new and unnoticed,
going deeper and deeper into the depths of the wonders
of God! Let us also rejoice with the angels,
and love to study the adorable perfections of God:
let us be fond of reading of and hearing about God.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O angel of God, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fifth Day.</head>

<p>
The angels speak to one another, and their conversation
is concerning holy things. The
Scriptures tell us that the seraphim cry <q>one to another,
Holy, holy, holy, the Lord God of hosts.</q>&mdash;Isa.
vi. 3. The angels also speak to God in prayer
and adoration; they praise His power, they extol His
majesty, they beseech His clemency, they consult
His wisdom. And they can also speak to men, as
the archangel Gabriel did to Mary. Faber tells us,
in wonderful words, what he thought of the power
of the angels: <q>Cast your eye over that outspread
ocean, whose shores lie so faintly and far off in the
almost infinite distance. It gleams like restless silver,
quivering with life, and yet such multitudinous life!
It flashes the light with intolerable magnificence. Its
unity is numberless, its life is purest light. Into the
bosom of its vastness the glory of God shines down,
and the universe is illuminated with its refulgence.
<pb n='409'/><anchor id='Pg409'/>
It is an ocean of life. Who can count the sum of
being that is there? Who but God can fathom its
unsearchable caverns? What created eye but is dazzled
with the blazing splendor of its capacious surface?
Grand storms of voiceless praise hang over it forever,
whose very silence thrills the soul of the human
saints.</q>
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O angel of God, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Sixth Day.</head>

<p>
The power of the angels is immense. The Scriptures
tell us that they destroyed Sodom and
Gomorrah, by raining fire and brimstone upon them.
They destroyed the army of Sennacherib, when every
soldier felt the keen edge of the angel's sword; they
strangled the first-born of the Egyptian people in one
night. The devil, by permission from God, raised
storms that tore down the houses in which Job's sons
and daughters were feasting, burying all in the ruins.
He afflicted Job with a most filthy disease, and
robbed him of all his possessions to try to make him
revolt against God. When Our Lord freed those
who were possessed by the devil, the evil spirit asked
to be permitted to enter a herd of swine, and when it
had received the permission the swine rushed headlong
down the hill into the sea and were destroyed.
If then, the power of these spirits is so great for evil,
the angels are more powerful for good. We will be
friends with our good angels whom God has sent to
perform favors for us&mdash;favors both temporal and
spiritual; we will hate the devil, and with the help
of God's grace resist his power.
</p>

<pb n='410'/><anchor id='Pg410'/>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O angel of God, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Seventh Day.</head>

<p>
The angelic world is most beautiful. St. Augustine
says in his <q>City of God,</q> <q>The angelic
world in its natural dignity surpasses all other
things the Lord has made. Consider this intelligence
by which they know so many things so perfectly,
the great power by which they can do good
to their fellow-creatures, the brightness of those
wonderful spirits shining like the glorious luminaries
of our universe, the wonderful gifts which almighty
God furnished them, and we have a picture of such
harmonious glory that all the beauty of the world,
all the magnificent actions of the human kind, dwindle
into insignificance before this great creation of
angelic spirits.</q> In Ezechiel we read of the admirable
beauty of the devil that had fallen: <q>Thou
wast the seal of resemblance, full of wisdom, and
perfect in beauty. Thou wast in the pleasures of
the paradise of God: every precious stone was thy
covering ... gold the work of thy beauty: ...
Thou wast a cherub stretching out thy wings and
covering, and I set thee in the holy mountain of God,
thou hast walked in the midst of the stones of fire.
Thou wast perfect in thy ways from the day of thy
creation, until iniquity was found in thee.</q>&mdash;Ezech.
12-15. And Isaias the prophet exclaimed with regret
at the fall of Lucifer, <q>How art thou fallen
from heaven, O Lucifer, who didst arise as the
morning.</q>
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O angel of God, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='411'/><anchor id='Pg411'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Eighth Day.</head>

<p>
Faber speaks in the following terms of the rational
creatures of God, including men and
angels: <q>God became a King by becoming a Creator.
Thus He gained an empire over which His
insatiable love might rule.</q> Nature is very beautiful,
whether we think of angelic or human nature.
Created nature is a shadow of the uncreated nature,
so real and so bright that we cannot think of it without
exceeding reverence. Yet God created neither
men nor angels in a state of nature. This is, to my
mind, the most wonderful and most suggestive thing
which we know about God. He would have no
reasonable nature, even from the very first, which
should not be partaker of His divine nature. This
is the very meaning of the state of grace. He
would not have it to breathe for one instant in a
merely natural way. The very act of creation was
full of fondness, of paternal jealousy. O that majesty
of God, which seems clothed with such wonderful
tranquillity in the eternity before the creation!
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O angel of God, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ninth day.</head>

<p>
Not only do the angels praise almighty God, pray
to Him, and converse with Him, but they do
it much more effectually than we do because of their
greater purity, and because they know God better
than we do. Hence the question might be asked,
what do the angels know of God, and of religion as
<pb n='412'/><anchor id='Pg412'/>
it is among us? The answer is that they know what
we know, and much more; still there are some things
too great because too infinite, even for the intelligence
of angels. Can the angels understand God?
No, indeed. God is infinite, and no finite mind can
comprehend Him. They know that God is one, because
even we, in our inferior intelligence, know that
there can be but one God; they know too, that
there are three divine persons, but it will ever remain
a mystery to them as well as to us, because it is
a truth of such infinite dimensions; but they understand
it much more distinctly than we do. It is
probable that the angels knew the mystery of the
incarnation by divine revelation, and they believed
in it. St. Thomas and other theologians are of
opinion that the bad angels fell because they would
not submit to the belief in the hypostatic union. It
was therefore fitting, for the glory and honor of the
Son of God, Who was to be made flesh, that the angels
should know this mystery.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O angel of God, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Tenth Day.</head>

<p>
Father Faber speaks thus of their knowledge of
the precious blood during their term of probation:
<q>The angels wonder more than man at the
goodness of God in sending us His divine Son to die
for us, because they understand it better. From the
very first He invited the angels to adore it. He made
their adoration a double exercise of humility&mdash;of
humility towards Himself, and of humility towards us,
<pb n='413'/><anchor id='Pg413'/>
their fellow-creatures. It was the test to which He
put their loyalty. He showed them His beloved Son,
the Second Person of the Blessed Trinity, in His
sacred humanity, united to a nature lower than theirs,
and in that lower nature crowned their King and
Head, to be worshipped by them with absolute and
unconditional adoration. The Son of a human
Mother was to be their head, and that daughter of
Eve to be herself their Queen. He showed them in
that blood the source of all their graces.</q> The
precious blood was as the dew of the whole kingdom
of the angels. Well, then, may the angels claim to
sing the song of the Lamb: to Whose outpoured
human life they also owed so much.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O angel of God, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Eleventh Day.</head>

<p>
The angels merited the crown of a happy eternity
in union with God: <q>For he also, that
striveth for the mastery, is not crowned except he
striveth lawfully.</q>&mdash;Tim. ii. 5. Such is the law of
God, not only for men but for angels also. Pope
Gelasius says, <q>That the angels were so constituted
as to merit an increase of eternal glory, is sufficiently
indicated by the fact that they stood in need of
nothing more, that none of them could have committed
evil.</q> And St. Prosper says of their trial,
<q>It was the action of the will of the holy angels,
that while their companions with their own free will
rebelled, they themselves remained faithful in the
dignity wherein God had placed them; and hence it
<pb n='414'/><anchor id='Pg414'/>
came to pass by a divine and most just judgment,
that what was only up to that a holy desire of
remaining with God, became thereafter a voluntary
and a most blessed necessity of remaining with Him
forever.</q> We too should strive continually to merit
our crown in heaven; we are placed on trial here on
this earth, a place of pilgrimage, and we should
remain faithful to the conditions of that trial until
our journey is over.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O angel of God, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twelfth Day.</head>

<p>
Almighty God loved His angels, and made them
His friends and favorites. The Blessed
Virgin is placed above them all, as the Church on the
day of her assumption proclaims: <q>She is exalted
above the choirs of angels in the heavenly kingdom.</q>
Here we have to adore the liberality of almighty
God, and the mysterious and adorable way in which
He distributes His gifts. He fashions the angels in
a natural order, and endows them with greater
natural perfections than others. Next He raises them
in the first instant of creation to the supernatural
order by the gift of sanctifying grace. Then comes
the time of probation, and He confirms the good forever
in glory, bestows on them the beatific vision,
happiness, enlightenment, and splendor according to
their acts, but still more in proportion to the natural
powers, dignity, and excellence of His own divine
hand. Here indeed is the potter and the potter's
clay spoken of by St. Paul. To man God acts
differently: <q>But the foolish things of the world
<pb n='415'/><anchor id='Pg415'/>
hath God chosen that He may confound the wise:
and the weak things of the world hath God chosen,
that He may confound the strong ... that no flesh
should glory in His sight.</q>&mdash;2 Cor. i. 27-29.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O angel of God, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirteenth Day.</head>

<p>
Oh, what a glory, what a happiness and consolation,
were granted to the angels when they
had done the will of God! God received His
faithful followers with goodness and love, and introduced
them into His place of glory, and there He
manifested Himself to them and will do so for all
eternity. And so the beautiful life of the angels in
heaven may furnish us with ample materials for
meditation. Our Lord calls our attention to them
when He bids us pray that we may do His will on
earth, as do the angels in heaven. Faber says,
<q>Grace is a better portion than nature for loving
God; by grace God can communicate Himself to
us supernaturally, by it He gets more love from
us, and makes us more able to love Him. O that
we had the hearts to know the meaning of this!
Surely His love of us should be our measure of love
for Him. Well might St. Francis run about the
woods crying out, <q>Oh, God is not known! God is
not loved!</q></q> The angels will ever remain in
heaven, loving and honoring God, in supreme happiness,
in the infinite light of God Himself. Let us
also, as some saints have done, offer to God the love
of the first choir of seraphim in reparation for all
the outrages going on in the world.
</p>

<pb n='416'/><anchor id='Pg416'/>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O angel of God, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fourteenth Day.</head>

<p>
We have seen the great reward the good angels
received for remaining faithful to God.
What did the bad angels lose by their infidelity?
It was to them a final impenitence, which means the
loss of the power of ever turning to God; which
will in its turn be an eternal regret at the loss of
God. Listen to the sentence of the reprobate:
<q>Depart from Me, ye accursed, into everlasting
flames, which was prepared for Satan and his
angels.</q> In Holy Scripture we often read of the
worm that gnaws and dies not; by this is meant the
continual anguish and grief of a soul which has lost
God&mdash;a passionate regret that will seize on it, and
never leave it, because the loss is an everlasting
one. God spoke, and the depths of hell sprang
into existence. Bossuet says that the curse of God
against the reprobate contains within itself an imprecation
against the unhappy soul, which tears out
from the minutest fibres of its being all the capacity
it once had to receive enjoyment from bliss, as well
as the power to perform the least good action
capable of meriting any mercy. This example of
the fall of the angels should strike terror into our
hearts, and should incite us to pray to the good
angels, especially to our guardian angel, so that we
may ever remain faithful to the service of God.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O angel of God, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='417'/><anchor id='Pg417'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fifteenth Day.</head>

<p>
It is an inexhaustible subject, the marvels which
theology teaches of the holy angels; who can
properly describe the power of these pure spirits, the
greatness of their intelligence, the fire of their holy
love? Their graces, their powers, their gifts, their
operations, their works, are so diversified that it is
with difficulty the mind of man can conceive them
and intelligibly speak of them. In several places in
the Scriptures we read of the choirs of angels, archangels,
principalities, powers, virtues, dominations,
thrones, cherubim, seraphim. Dionysius teaches
that there are three orders of angels&mdash;three superior,
three inferior and three middle: the superior, cherubim,
seraphim, and thrones; the middle, dominations,
principalities, and powers; the inferior, virtues,
archangels and angels. These names are given to
them, not for their own sake but for ours; and the
individual orders are called from the gifts of grace
which they possess. O that we realized that our
future eternity is to be with the angels in heaven;
that our glory depends on our life here; greater
glory for greater work! We should strive to deserve
a great place in heaven for the glory of God.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O angel of God, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Sixteenth Day.</head>

<p>
The angels are engaged in praising and loving
God; what this really includes who can tell?&mdash;or
it means a variety of occupation and the greatest
<pb n='418'/><anchor id='Pg418'/>
liberty of using their free will for the glory of God.
The angels occupy themselves according to the meaning
of their names. God, in His relations to Himself,
is represented by seraphim, cherubim and thrones&mdash;angels
that are devoted to His service particularly;
who rejoice not so much in doing their own will, as
they are happy in the close association with the
splendor of God in heaven. A seraph is a great,
pure angel, who shines and burns in honor of God.
He represents the love of God; that great love for
His creatures which is forever active in our behalf.
The seraphs are put in the highest place, as created
representations of that wonderful attribute, the charity
of God for Himself. The cherubim are placed
second; they represent knowledge and wisdom:
<q>He was the true light, which enlighteneth every
man that cometh into this world.</q> This is Jesus,
the Second Person of the Blessed Trinity, represented
by the cherubim. The thrones represent God in His
majesty, sitting on His throne of glory in heaven.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O angel of God, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Seventeenth Day.</head>

<p>
Thus we may say that the seraphim represents the
Holy Ghost; the cherubim, the Word, the Son
of God; the thrones, the Father. These choirs of
angels are in the immediate presence of God. They
are before His throne, and they see Him day and
night in His temple: <q>and He that sitteth on the
throne shall dwell over them.</q> M. Olier says:
<q>The seraphim proceed from God, as flames proceed
<pb n='419'/><anchor id='Pg419'/>
from a furnace, and their circle surround Him
as with a fiery blaze.</q> The cherubim are the rays
of the divine wisdom, and are, so to say, the eyes of
God, under which He seems to regard Himself, and
all the external world. The thrones are the image of
His sanctity. This hierarchy expresses the three
great perfections which we adore in God, namely:
His love, His knowledge, and His holiness. These
typify also those beautiful operations of grace
whereby God draws to Himself intelligent beings;
by detaching them from creatures and attaching them
to Himself, enlightening them interiorly by His
heavenly wisdom, so that they freely follow the guidance
of God, and making His throne in their hearts,
in their affections, abides there forever.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O angel of God, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Eighteenth Day.</head>

<p>
Let us consider to-day the angels of the second
choir. They are the dominations, principalities
and powers. Again their names are given to them
for the virtues they represent, and not from their
angelic nature. The three choirs of the first hierarchy
were typical of the essential acts of God. The three
of the second represent the external acts of God.
The dominations represent the power of God. He
is the absolute Lord of the universe; He is the
Creator, the Maker, and therefore the possessor of
all that is. The principalities govern the world,
under God, and according to His divine providence.
<q>By Me kings reign, and lawgivers decree just
things.</q> Hence the duty of this choir of angels is
<pb n='420'/><anchor id='Pg420'/>
to praise God for the wisdom displayed in His
ruling and legislating of the external creation. The
angels of power put the laws of God into execution.
They reward and punish; they are the representatives
of executive power. They praise God in the power
manifested in the carrying out of the laws impressed
on the material and spiritual world. Should we not
learn from these angels to praise the Almighty in all
He has done?
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O angel of God, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Nineteenth Day.</head>

<p>
The third choir of the hierarchy of the angels are
the virtues, archangels, and angels. The virtues
are the first of these, and represent the acts of
God towards individuals. Those works of God which
surpass the power of man, such as miracles, or inward
movements of grace, are performed by the virtues
of the Most High; they hold an intermediate
station between heaven and earth. Archangels are
the great messengers, whom God has sent to His intelligent
creation. The name is given because the
goodness and kindness of God have distinguished
them from the myriads of other angels, and given
them an office, that of bearing to men the words of
God; they also carry the prayers of the faithful on
earth, and lay them before God's throne in heaven;
and they are sent to conduct souls to the portals of
heavenly bliss. The archangels have the duty of
protecting the Church; those who occupy high positions
in the Church or State are said to be under the
guidance of an archangel. In this manner the higher
<pb n='421'/><anchor id='Pg421'/>
grade of archangels represents the higher degree of
providence shown by God towards individuals. Let
us unite ourselves with the choir of the archangels and
praise God in them&mdash;those glorious spirits, that have
so perfectly conveyed God's messages to men.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O angel of God, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twentieth Day.</head>

<p>
It is a belief which we may prove from the Scriptures,
which is corroborated by many facts in
the history of the world, and by the belief of ancient
people, that God governs the world, even the natural
world, through the agency of spirits; to each of
whom He was pleased to depute certain offices. He
made use of the good angels to maintain order in
general, to watch over empires, to protect men,
to carry His blessings to them, and to be the
executives of His justice. Everywhere Scripture
recalls this wonderful ministry of the angels; and
there is not an epoch of time in which such a
tradition did not exist. We read in the Gospel that
Our Lord Himself was tempted by the devil, the
fallen angel. Our blessed Lord teaches us that little
children are dearer to Him than they are to their own
mothers, and He has appointed angels to be their
guardians. So great is a human soul in the eyes of
God. We have to struggle not alone against flesh
and blood, but against principalities and powers,
against those who have dominion in this world, and
against evil spirits scattered in the air. But in this
struggle we shall be assisted by the good spirits,
<pb n='422'/><anchor id='Pg422'/>
whom God commissions to look after His beloved
creatures.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O angel of God, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-first Day.</head>

<p>
In the book of the Apocalypse, we read of the
activity of the angels. We see them coming
from heaven to earth; they bring down from almighty
God orders for salvation as well as for
punishment; hence the angels are called ministering
spirits, sent for the ministry of our salvation. Especially
may we conceive that in the service of the
Church the angels are particularly active&mdash;that there
are angels who intervene in the oblation, and bear
it to the sublime altar of Jesus Christ, angels who are
called angels of prayer, and who present before God
the petitions of the faithful. St. Michael is the defender
of the Church. The ancient Jewish people
were protected by St. Michael, also. Other nations
had their superior spirits, which are mentioned in the
Scriptures as protectors; for the prophet Daniel
speaks of the prince of the Greeks, the prince of the
Persians, angels who preside spiritually and invisibly
over these nations. Are we not also important as a
nation, in the designs of God? Whom has God
appointed over the affairs of our country? We know
there is such a spirit; let us pray to him even without
knowing him, for we are sure that our prayers
will reach the one appointed by God to protect us.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O angel of God, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='423'/><anchor id='Pg423'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-second Day.</head>

<p>
To each man an angel is appointed for his care:
this we can prove from the Scriptures.
<q>Their angels in heaven always see the face of My
Father Who is in heaven.</q>&mdash;Matt. xviii. 10. St.
Paul says, <q>Are they not all ministering spirits, sent
to minister for them, who shall receive the inheritance
of salvation?</q>&mdash;Heb. i. 14. Fallen man
needed some help, and almighty God entrusted him
to the care of the angels. Even God's power, God's
wisdom, and God's mercy demand it. First of all,
the power of God demanded that the angels should
not only serve Him, but serve His glory in His
creatures. God's wisdom demanded that each
human being coming into the world should receive
a guardian; for the devil has great power over us,
and we would not be able to battle against the devil
or the flesh without help. God desires to preserve
His work: hence God's mercy moves Him in favor
of the fallen or those in danger of a fall, like unto a
mother full of tenderness for her children. God
gave His only Son for the redemption of mankind;
precious, indeed, then, is this human soul, if worthy
to be purchased by the blood of the Lamb; certainly
precious enough, too, to be guarded with care by a
superior intelligence.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O angel of God, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-third Day.</head>

<p>
Not only the just, but also sinners, have guardian
angels. Indeed it would appear that sinners
<pb n='424'/><anchor id='Pg424'/>
and infidels need them more, for the sinner is so wayward,
and yet God in His kindness wishes to bring
him back to good ways, and so the gentle persuasion
of a guiding spirit is necessary. The Scriptures
do not limit the attendance of the guardian angels
to those only who are in a state of grace; therefore
it is likely that even after sin the ministering angel
remains. While we are good we hardly need the
presence of a good spirit; it is when we have turned
to evil that we need that precious guide. The belief
that a guardian angel attends us ought to impress
itself deeply on our minds; we are never alone, we
are taken care of by the ministers of God Our
Father, and we have nothing to fear. Even though
the world has turned against us, and we are surrounded
by trouble on all sides, we are sure that this
angel will bring comfort to us. Children should be
taught from their early childhood that a guardian
angel attends them; it will have a very good effect
in shaping their lives.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O angel of God, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-fourth Day.</head>

<p>
The guardian angels have certain duties to perform,
and we can put them down in this
wise. First, the angel guardian defends us from all
evil. He can put thoughts into our minds which
will put us on our guard against sin. Second, the
angels oppose the cunning of the devil, who wants
to destroy us. The devil argues in a very crafty
manner, and unless we are strengthened by the love
<pb n='425'/><anchor id='Pg425'/>
and the goodness of God we would be led astray by
the devil's superior intelligence. But our guardian
angel brings light to the mind, and holds the soul in
the desire of good. Third, they offer our prayers
to almighty God, as we read in the Apocalypse,
<q>There was given to [the angel] much incense, ...
and the smoke of the incense of the prayers of the
saints, ascended up before God, from the hand of
the angel.</q> Our angel intercedes for us with God
with a personal and special interest, and we, on account
of our great sinfulness, need an angel to help
us to obtain grace and mercy from almighty God.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O angel of God, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-fifth Day.</head>

<p>
We do most assuredly deserve punishment from
God, because we do not behave ourselves as
we should; like a naughty child, who, notwithstanding
good advice and most tender interest, will go
wrong, be obstinate and sulky. The good mother
chastises the child in the same manner the spirit of
God shows his disapprobation, in a gentle manner,
for the angel of light would not resort to force, as
the demon does in his attacks. We ought to be glad
that we have a spirit of wisdom about us that will
tell us of our sins; that excites the qualms of conscience,
and will give us no rest until we make our
peace with God. We often turn a deaf ear to the
entreaties of the good spirit; we trample our conscience
under foot and abuse it, bring up reasons to
combat its correction: we argue with ourselves in
<pb n='426'/><anchor id='Pg426'/>
obstinacy, and being left alone, who will gain the
victory? The devil and our evil inclinations will
gain the day assuredly. Docility to the interior voice
is a necessary quality for a good life; to listen to
God and spiritual influences ought to be, to say the
least, the very natural consequence of a rational soul,
tending to God with all its power.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O angel of God, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-sixth Day.</head>

<p>
The influence of the angels in bringing us to
heaven should be marvellous for that purpose.
They have been assigned to our service, to bring our
wandering spirits back to God. What a glorious
conquest when an angel can snatch a soul from eternal
perdition by his prayers and exertions! If the
devil is active to gain us, would it not be against
reason that the good angel would stand back and remain
inactive? The last hours of a man, his judgment,
and entrance into heaven, are the moments of
the great and final duties of the guardian spirits;
and if the soul be detained in purgatory, then the
duty of the angel will be to offer the prayers of
friends, relatives and of the Church to almighty God
for the good of that soul. And perhaps by the kind
possibility of the mercy of God, the angel will descend
into the fires of purgatory and will speak consoling,
comforting, and encouraging words to the soul whose
greatest torment is the separation from God for a
time, until its purgation is complete.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O angel of God. etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='427'/><anchor id='Pg427'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-seventh Day.</head>

<p>
St. Bonaventure has written extensively on the
holy angels, and has meditated on their ways.
It was a useful practice to him and helped to sanctify
him. He gives us twelve effects consequent to
the duty of taking care of us, which these angel
guardians manifest and perform. First, they accuse
of sin, as we read in Judges ii. 1. Second, they absolve
from the debt of sin by inspiring sorrow in the
soul, and a firm purpose of amendment. Third, they
remove the obstacles that stand in the way of doing
good; for the angels strangled the first-born of the
Egyptians, who opposed the going away of the
Israelites. Fourth, they drive away demons, as is
related in the twelfth chapter, of Tobias. Fifth,
they teach us in matters of religion. Sixth, they reveal
the secrets of God to us. <q>Can I hide from
Abraham what I am about to do?</q>&mdash;Gen. xviii. 17.
Seventh, they console us. Eighth, they strengthen
us in the way of God. Ninth, they convey
and bring back, as we read in Tobias, <q>I will
conduct him thither and bring him back to thee.</q>
Tenth, they overthrow our enemies.&mdash;Is. xxxvii.
Eleventh, they mitigate the violence of temptations.
Twelfth, they pray for us, and bear our prayers to
God.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O angel of God, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-eighth Day.</head>

<p>
During this month we have thought of the nature
of the angels, and their work for human kind;
<pb n='428'/><anchor id='Pg428'/>
now let us reflect on what we ought to do in return
for these attentions. Ought we let them pass, accept
them as a matter of course, and pay no attention to
them? Many do this. Yet we owe them something&mdash;how
much, is left almost to our own generosity. We
certainly owe them friendship; they are our friends,
and are solicitous for our welfare. If I have a
friend that does a great deal for me, supplies my
wants, and satisfies every wish of mine, I am certainly
proud of his friendship, and I will seek every
opportunity to be in his company. So should we
treat our truest friends&mdash;our guardian angels. We
should also reverence the angels, because they
are greater beings than we are; they are the favorites
and friends of God. Then we must have a devotion
to them. This devotion we are endeavoring
to practice during the month of October.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O angel of God, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-ninth Day.</head>

<p>
What goodness does not God evince in giving
us angels to watch over us! The princes
of earth choose the most learned to train the heirs
to the crown; and God gives us guides full of
wisdom, science, and purity. He has deputed the
princes of His court to watch over us. What high
ideas we should conceive of our dignity, then, and
how we should realize that we are called to great
sanctity! Even a mother's love cannot equal the
angels', and when we go to heaven we will be
astonished on reviewing their services. St. Bernard
<pb n='429'/><anchor id='Pg429'/>
exclaims, <q>O excess of goodness and love! O admirable
condescension! He has given His angels
charge over us.</q> The great God of heaven and
earth has sent those elevated dignitaries of His
heavenly court to watch over us, poor miserable
sinners. Why does He do this? What can be His
object in so caring for us? It is to His goodness
alone we owe all. Let us prove ourselves grateful,
then, to Him and to His holy angels, and may we
one day join them in their songs of praise and
gladness!
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O angel of God, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirtieth Day.</head>

<p>
St. Bernard teaches that we ought to honor and
respect our angels on account of their excellence;
to love them for their care of us, and to have
recourse to them in all our necessities. However
weak or miserable we may be, or however terrible
the dangers that surround us, we should not fear
under the protection of such guardians. There is
no better way of securing the protection of the
angels than by avoiding all sin, but particularly
mortal sin; for when we are at enmity with God
they are ready to exterminate us at His command.
But they will ever prove faithful friends to the servants
of God. How can the angels help loving and
aiding those whom they know are dear to God?
Our guardian angels often ward off accidents that
would cut us off unprepared; after interceding for
us to prevent God from calling us out of life, they
try to make us bring forth worthy fruits of penance.
O holy angels, I entreat you to extend your special
<pb n='430'/><anchor id='Pg430'/>
care to me during the rest of my life, that I may
live in God's friendship and die in His love.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O angel of God, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirty-first Day.</head>

<p>
When the figure of this world shall have passed
away, the angels will come and call us to
judgment; every human being will then rise again,
and hasten to the valley of Jehosaphat. The good
will go to the right side, the wicked to the left, the
separation made by the angels. Then will the Lord
appear in the glory of heaven, surrounded by His
angels, and the judgment will take place. Happy
shall we be if we are judged to be as pure as the
angels, and will ascend with them to paradise, ever
to be associated with them. Then will come our exceeding
great reward; we shall see God face to face
for all eternity. We shall form choirs for the praise
of the Almighty, alternating with the angels. We
shall know God, love Him, rejoice in Him, and
praise Him. Then, for the first time, we shall love
God above all things, our joy shall be without
measure because we shall have a particular joy for
everything that is in God. We will praise God with
all our heart, with all our strength, with all our power,
with all our faculties. <q>Happy are they that live in
Thy house, O Lord, for they will praise Thee forever
and ever.</q> Here youth never grows old; here there
is life that knows no end, beauty that never fades,
love that never cools, joy that never ceases. Let us
then, while on earth, lead the life of angels, be as
pure as they, as obedient to God's will as they, and
<pb n='431'/><anchor id='Pg431'/>
pray to them daily that they help us to this much-desired
perfection.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O angel of God, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Litany of the Holy Guardian Angel.</head>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>For Private Devotion Only.</hi>)
</p>

<lg>
<l>Lord, have mercy on us.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Lord, have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Christ, have mercy on us.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Christ, have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Christ, hear us.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Christ, graciously hear us.</hi></l>
<l>God the Father of heaven, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us</hi>.</l>
<l>God the Son, Redeemer of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us</hi>.</l>
<l>God the Holy Ghost, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us</hi>.</l>
<l>Holy Trinity, one God, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us</hi>.</l>
<l>Holy Mary, Queen of angels, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Angel, my guardian, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Angel, my prince, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Angel, my monitor, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Angel, my counsellor, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Angel, my defender, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Angel, my steward, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Angel, my friend, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Angel, my negotiator, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Angel, my intercessor, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Angel, my patron, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Angel, my director, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Angel, my ruler, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Angel, my protector, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Angel, my comforter, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Angel, my teacher, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Angel, my shepherd, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Angel, my witness, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Angel, my helper, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Angel, my watcher, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Angel, my conductor, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Angel, my preserver, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Angel, my instructor, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Angel, my enlightener, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<pb n='432'/><anchor id='Pg432'/>
<l>Lamb of God, Who takest away the sins of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Spare us, O Lord!</hi></l>
<l>Lamb of God, Who takest away the sins of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Graciously hear us, O Lord!</hi></l>
<l>Lamb of God, Who takest away the sins of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us, O Lord!</hi></l>
<l>Christ, hear us.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Christ, graciously hear us.</hi></l>
</lg>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Pray for us, O holy guardian angel,
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> That we may be made worthy of the promises of Christ.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Let Us Pray.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Almighty, everlasting God, Who in the counsel of Thy ineffable
goodness hast appointed to all the faithful from
their mother's womb, a special guardian angel of their body and
soul; grant that I may love and honor him whom Thou hast so
mercifully given me, that protected by the bounty of Thy grace,
and by his assistance, I may merit to behold, with him and all
the angelic host, the glory of Thy countenance in the heavenly
country. Who livest and reignest world without end. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Special Prayers.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Prayer To The Guardian Angel.</head>

<p>
Angel of God, who art my guardian, enlighten,
guard, direct, and govern me, who have been
committed to thee by the supernal clemency. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Prayers To St. Michael, St. Gabriel, And St.
Raphael.</head>

<p>
Glorious St. Michael! prince of the heavenly
host, protector of the universal Church, defend
us against all our enemies, visible and invisible.
Do not permit that we should ever fall under their
tyranny.
</p>

<p>
St. Gabriel! thou who art justly called the strength
of God, since thou hast been chosen to announce to
<pb n='433'/><anchor id='Pg433'/>
many the mystery of the incarnation, in which the
Almighty has displayed the power of His arms, make
us know the treasure contained in the person of the
Son of God, and be our protector with His august
Mother.
</p>

<p>
St. Raphael! charitable guide of travellers, thou
who, by divine virtue, dost effect miraculous cures,
deign to guide us in the pilgrimage of this life, and
heal the maladies of our souls and bodies. All ye
orders of blessed spirits, be our defenders and protectors
during our life and at the hour of our death.
Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Act Of Consecration To Our Guardian Angel.</head>

<p>
Angel of God! prince of heaven, watchful
guardian, faithful guide, charitable pastor, I
rejoice that God has created thee with so many perfections;
that He has sanctified thee by His grace,
and crowned thee with glory, after having persevered
in His service. May God be praised forever for all
He has done for thee! Be thou blessed for all the
good thou hast procured me and my companions.
I abandon to thee my body, soul, memory, understanding,
will, inclination, and senses. Govern all,
dispose of all, purify, enlighten, perfect all. Beg
Our Lord to shed upon me and my companions His
abundant benedictions; that, persevering until death
in His grace, we may deserve to possess Him eternally
with thee in glory. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Prayer To The Holy Angels During The Month
Of October.</head>

<p>
O pure and happy spirits, whom the Almighty
selected to become the angels and guardians
<pb n='434'/><anchor id='Pg434'/>
of men! we most humbly prostrate ourselves before
you, to thank you for the charity and zeal with
which you execute this commission. Alas! how
many pass a long life without ever thanking that invisible
friend to whom they a thousand times owe
its preservation! O charitable guardians of those
souls for whom Christ died! O burning spirits, who
cannot but love those whom Jesus eternally loved,
permit us to address you in behalf of all those committed
to your care, and to implore for them all, in
general, a grateful sense of your many favors, and
the grace to profit by your charitable assistance.
O angels of those happy infants, who are as yet
without spot before God, preserve their innocence,
we earnestly conjure you. Angels of youth, who are
exposed to so many dangers, conduct them in safety
to the bosom of God, as Tobias was conducted back
to his father. Angels of those who are employed in
the instruction of youth, animate them with your zeal
and love; teach them to emulate your purity and
incessant view of God, that they may worthily and
successfully co-operate with the invisible guardians
of their young charges. O angels of the clergy, who
have the eternal Gospel to preach, present their
words, their actions, and their intentions to God,
and purify them in that fire of love which consumes
you. Angels of infidels, whom the true faith has
never enlightened, intercede for them; that, practising
what they know, they may at length discover the
hidden secrets of the kingdom of God. O angels of
all those who, throughout the world, are deprived
of religious instruction, open for them some source
of salvation; raise up some one to break for them
the bread of the Word. And you, O guardian
<pb n='435'/><anchor id='Pg435'/>
angels of sinners, charitable guides of those unhappy
mortals, whose persistence in sin would embitter
even your unutterable joys were you not established
in the peace of God, oh, join us, we ardently beseech
you, in imploring their conversion. Angels of all
those who at this moment struggle in the agonies
of death, strengthen, encourage and defend them
against the attacks of their infernal enemies. O
faithful guides, holy spirits, ardent adorers of the
Divinity, guardian angels of all creatures! protect us
all, teach us to love, to pray, to combat on earth,
and rather obtain for us instant death than permit us
to commit one mortal sin. Amen.
</p>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='436'/><anchor id='Pg436'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>November. The Souls in Purgatory.</head>

<p>
A truly Christian soul will, during this month, think with
love of the faithful departed. There is nothing more
pleasing to God, or more profitable to ourselves, than the
practice of praying for the souls in purgatory, that He may
relieve their sufferings and speedily admit them to His glory.
We see our friends dropping from the ranks of the living, and
entering that state which is so mysterious. The Church tells
us that we can help them on their way to heaven by our
prayers, if they have been detained in purgatory to atone to
God's justice for their transgressions.
</p>

<p>
St. Alphonsus says, <q>It is a duty, for Christian charity
commands us to relieve our neighbors who stand in need of our
assistance; but who among all our neighbors have so great
need of our help as these holy prisoners, deprived for a time
of the sight of God?</q> Many indulgences, both plenary and
partial, are applicable to them; let us gain them, so that the
mercy of God may be moved in their favor. Let us also remember
the poor souls who have no one to pray for them.
And in return these blessed souls will not neglect to obtain for
us many graces from God, particularly the grace of eternal
life.
</p>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Considerations and Prayers for Every Day.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>First Day.</head>

<p>
Often meditate on the sufferings of the souls in
purgatory. The thought will inspire you
with the proper and holy fear of God's justice, which
requires expiation in purgatory for sins unatoned for
in this life. It will also move you to have compassion
<pb n='437'/><anchor id='Pg437'/>
on the poor souls, and to relieve them by
your good works. The souls in purgatory endure
dreadful punishments; it is the opinion of theologians
that they suffer the pains of fire. They also
suffer the pain of loss, which is more severe than
that of sense. You should ask yourselves: Shall we
suffer these dreadful pains in purgatory, or shall we
escape them? Let us take warning from the unhappy
souls who are to be miserable for eternity, and
cultivate a salutary fear of God's justice and so avoid
sin. Let the happiness of the saints encourage us to
lead virtuous lives, and confide in the mercy and
goodness of God. Standing between the eternity
of happiness and the eternity of misery, we must
make our choice. Through God's grace and the
intercession of the Blessed Virgin and the members
of the heavenly court, let us resolve, in future, to
avoid not only mortal but also venial sin. Let us
resolve also to atone for our past sins, and pay the
debt which we owe to God's justice, so that when
our souls are separated from our bodies we may go
at once to enjoy God in heaven.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Release, O Lord, the souls of all the faithful departed
from the bonds of their sins; and by
the assistance of Thy grace may they escape the sentence
of condemnation, and enjoy the bliss of eternal
light. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Second Day.</head>

<p>
We are told that few of those who save their
souls, except children who have not lost their
baptismal innocence, go to heaven without passing
<pb n='438'/><anchor id='Pg438'/>
through purgatory. How many are surprised by
death in venial sin! how many who receive forgiveness
for the guilt of mortal sin still owe some temporal
debt for it! how few leave this life without some
stain on their souls! Yet every stain must be wiped
away, every farthing of the debt paid, before the soul
can leave the prison of purgatory. We have no time to
lose, death may be at our doors. Why not now use
the means of avoiding purgatory? Why do we count
a suffering in the future which in the present we
would be in no way ready to accept, but would employ
every effort to escape? How soon must we leave
this world never to return! How soon will day and
night have no meaning for us! Our bodies, mouldered
into dust, will come to life again only at the
sound of the last trumpet, and then only for judgment.
Friends who love us, possessions on which
we have set our hearts, will be taken from us. We
will leave as we came, alone. Why, then, attach
ourselves to those things in such a way as to bring
upon us the displeasure of God, and the sufferings
which His displeasure entails? Better far to live here
with the thought of the bitterness which goes with
wrongdoing and a sense of security for the future,
than thoughtlessly to incur the punishment which is
to be found in purgatory.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Release, O Lord, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Third Day.</head>

<p>
The earth is only a vast cemetery. Our ancestors
are mixed up with its clay, whether they lie
beneath the surface or have had their ashes scattered
<pb n='439'/><anchor id='Pg439'/>
to the four winds. How soon were they forgotten!
Of all the generations which have gone before us how
few individuals are known! Of some history tells
the noble deeds, of others the dark ones. The really
wise and great men of every age are the virtuous, now
the friends of God. Their names come down to us
in benediction. History may record the names of
the wicked, but their memory is held in execration.
What matters it to all those who are dead whether
men speak of them or not? The one thing of importance
is how God has regarded their lives. We too
will soon be forgotten. The birds that will sing near
our graves will be listened to and admired by the
visitor to the cemetery, but we will not receive even a
passing thought. Even those for whom our hearts
throbbed with anxiety, those for whose happiness we
strove with so much labor, will scarcely think of us.
We will have been gathered to the dead, our term of
activity will have passed, our day will have ended,
and with it all interest in us will also end. We will
be one of the millions laid away in the cemetery.
Has this thought no meaning for us? It ought
to suggest the importance of giving more attention to
that which God had in view in creating us. Not
ambitious of what men may think of us, but ambitious
of securing that which we alone can obtain for
ourselves, happiness in the life to come. Then
will our lonely and forgotten condition matter
very little.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Release, O Lord, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='440'/><anchor id='Pg440'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fourth Day.</head>

<p>
You have, perhaps, stood at the grave, and seen
the earth cover the remains of a dear one. It
may have been the remains of the most beloved one
you ever knew. Oh, how you stood in need of consolation!
There were moments when you felt as if
your heart must break. Yet when faith came to your
aid, and you remembered that the separation was only
for a time, that the moment of reunion would come,
and you would again see the dear one, only purified,
glorified, and free from all the blemishes life on
earth entails, there was an awakening, a consolation,
a strengthening, which no other thought could
bring. With this new feeling came the resolve to
help the one gone by such gifts as your love would
dictate and your faith direct. What if that dear one
was condemned to tarry in a place of purgation?
What if you by your good works and prayers could
assist, but instead spent your time in fruitless lament
and regrets? Then it was that you felt all your old
love quicken, and the eagerness which had led you
to care for the loved one in life, received a new incentive.
You recollected that the time in which he
could help himself had passed, and he had to rely
entirely on the good services of his friends&mdash;that the
hand of God was to lay heavy upon him until the full
measure of expiation had been paid. There is comfort
in the reflection that we can still be of service
to those we loved in life; we can be charitable to
them, and improve ourselves by the practice of that
charity. The true Christian mourns his friends, but
he mourns over them, not with a vain hope, but with
a prayerful appeal to the throne of mercy.
</p>

<pb n='441'/><anchor id='Pg441'/>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Release, O Lord, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fifth Day.</head>

<p>
The doctrine of purgatory implies two truths.
First, that after a mortal sin is forgiven in the
Sacrament of Penance, and the eternal punishment
due to it is remitted, there still remains some debt of
temporal punishment to pay, either in this life&mdash;by
deeds of penance&mdash;or in the next in purgatory.
Second, even venial sins are a stain which prevent
the soul from entering into heaven. These stains,
therefore, must first be wiped off, if the soul is to
enter the abode of all holiness. Now, purgatory is
the place where the souls predestined to eternal
glory are detained for a time, and this period is fixed
by God's justice for the purpose of expiation and
purification, until they are quite worthy of the everlasting
bliss prepared for them. Until the end of
the world, until the last Day of Judgment, there will
be an intermediate place between heaven and hell.
Heaven is the place where only the just and holy are
admitted. Hell is the dungeon into whose depths
are plunged the souls of the impious and unrepenting.
But purgatory lies between the two, and is
meant to receive for a time those souls of the just
who will require some further purification. And I
am hurrying to one or the other place. Which shall
it be? Whichever it is it will be of my own making
and choice. God is now giving me time and opportunities
sufficient to gain the one and avoid the
other. Let me reflect whither my course is leading
me. Let me do it now&mdash;to-morrow may be too late.
<pb n='442'/><anchor id='Pg442'/>
God has given me only one life in which to accomplish
my salvation. According to the eternal decree
that life will end at the appointed time.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Release, O Lord, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Sixth Day.</head>

<p>
The Church is the mystical body of Jesus Christ,
of which He is the Head, and all the faithful
are the members. It is divided into three parts: the
Church Militant on earth, consisting of the faithful
who are still fighting for their faith and struggling for
their salvation; the Church Triumphant, consisting
of the saints in heaven; and finally, the Church Suffering,
consisting of the souls in purgatory. All the
dead, then, who die in the Lord, belong to the great
mysterious body of Christ, either as members glorified
already, or as still awaiting the glory to come. But
all are united among themselves and form one great
communion of saints. Therefore when we consider
what faith teaches us concerning the Church Suffering,
or purgatory, we cannot help exclaiming: <q>O faith!
how beautiful thou art! How touching is the communion
of saints!</q> We children of the Church
Militant stretch forth one hand towards our brethren
of the Church Triumphant for help and protection;
and with the other extended we supplicate by our
prayers, our alms, and patient sufferings, that the time
of probation for our brethren of the Church Suffering
may be shortened. We feel they entreat us to alleviate
their torments, and their gratitude for our good
services will incline them to help us in our infirmities
<pb n='443'/><anchor id='Pg443'/>
and weakness. How often does this thought occupy
our attention? It should engage us frequently. As
we are now so once were the souls in purgatory; as
they are now so we hope to be&mdash;for once in purgatory
it means that heaven is within our reach.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Release, O Lord, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Seventh Day.</head>

<p>
The Bible, in its very first pages, shows us that
a custom of praying for the dead existed
among the people of the earliest centuries. This
implies the existence of purgatory, because it stands
to reason that we do not pray either for the saints
in heaven or for the damned in hell. For, says St.
Thomas Aquinas, those prayers would be useless and
in vain, if there were no purgatory, because prayers
cannot be offered up for those who have already arrived
at their end, but only for those who have not yet
reached their final destiny. When Jacob and Joseph
were about to depart from this world they earnestly
besought those who stood around their death-beds, especially
their own children, to convey their mortal
remains to Palestine. For those pious patriarchs
well knew that their descendants there would offer
sacrifices of expiation, and they hoped these offerings
would gain for them the longed-for peace and
rest. On the announcement of the death of Saul all
the inhabitants of Jabes imposed upon themselves a
seven days' fast. The inspired poet-king takes part,
not only in the sorrow, but also in the sacrifices.
He himself sings in touching, elevated strain, the
<pb n='444'/><anchor id='Pg444'/>
doctrine of purgatory, when describing the inexpressible
joy and delight of those souls who have happily
passed through the fire and water of tribulation, and
have arrived at the ardently longed-for joy and refreshment
of the Lord. The prophet Micheas says:
<q>I shall arise, when I sit in darkness, the Lord is my
light. I will bear the wrath of the Lord because I
have sinned against Him, until He judge my cause
and execute judgment for me: He will bring me
forth into the light, I shall behold His justice.</q>
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Release, O Lord, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Eighth Day.</head>

<p>
Instructed by holy and exalted prophets,
the people of Israel, from the earliest times,
made sacrifices and offerings for the dead, and
thereby clearly showed their belief in purgatory.
The records of all the past centuries referring to the
subject clearly show that not the smallest doubt can
be entertained on this point. When the star of the
Jewish civilization began to fade, the heroic line of
the Machabees gathered all their force once more
together, in order to inaugurate a new epoch of
power and glory. In the description of their noble
and heroic actions we come across the unmistakable
proof of their universal tradition and belief. Judas,
the mighty hero, having lost a great number of
soldiers in battle, did not confine himself to merely
giving them an honorable burial. He commanded a
collection to be made, and sent the sum to Jerusalem
for a sacrifice to be offered for the fallen heroes.
<pb n='445'/><anchor id='Pg445'/>
Holy Scripture concludes the narrative with the
words: <q>It is therefore a holy and a wholesome
thought to pray for the dead, that they may be
loosed from their sins</q>&mdash;that is from all temporal
punishment due to those sins. This thought is
justly called holy, because it springs from a holy
source, that of faith and charity. It is called wholesome,
in the first place to the poor souls themselves,
because it comforts and encourages them in their
sufferings, in the next place to those who pray for
them, because they increase their own merits thereby,
and gain new, faithful friends in heaven.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Release, O Lord, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ninth Day.</head>

<p>
The Holy Scriptures imply, in the narration of
the action of the great leader Judas, the existence
of purgatory, or some such place of purification
in the next world, where the souls of the
departed can be assisted by our prayers and sacrifices,
and be cleansed from their sins. Certainly it would
have been impossible, in such heavy time of war, to
gather from the people such large sums of money, or
to all at once introduce an innovation in religious
practice of that kind, if this belief in purgatory had
not been long and firmly implanted in their hearts.
All the passages from the Old Testament clearly
prove the truth of the Catholic doctrine, which
teaches us that there exists a place for the purification
of such souls as die in a state of grace, but have not
yet fully expiated all their sins; and that those souls
<pb n='446'/><anchor id='Pg446'/>
can be delivered by the prayers and good works of
the faithful. The son of Sirach bears witness to the
same when he says: <q>A gift hath grace in the sight
of all the living, and restrain not grace from the
dead,</q> which means that we should pay our dead the
last respects and offer up sacrifices for them. This
passage supports the general belief of the Jews, that
we can assist the departed by good works. The
Jews even now believe in the existence of some place
of purification, and are in the habit of praying for
their dead. The Jewish belief in purgatory rested on
a very firm foundation.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Release, O Lord, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Tenth Day.</head>

<p>
In the fulness of time the divine Saviour Jesus
Christ appeared on earth. While disowning
in His teaching all the false theories and erroneous
traditions of Scribes and Pharisees, while condemning
with the greatest precision their errors on the
subject of death and resurrection, He never uttered
one syllable against the general belief in purgatory,
or against the public practice of praying for the
dead. On the contrary He left it just as it existed
under the Old Law. Could the Son of God, Who
had come down to make known the will of His
Father, have acted thus if this were not a holy, just,
and pious custom? The Redeemer did not find it
necessary to give lengthy proofs of the existence of
this place of punishment. It was enough to simply
remind the people of it. For, in truth, He addressed
<pb n='447'/><anchor id='Pg447'/>
a people who had never entertained the
smallest doubt on the subject. In one of His sermons
He unmistakably alludes to purgatory, where
He speaks of a prison from which no one can
be delivered except on the payment of the full
debt. What other prison but purgatory can here be
meant? Heaven cannot be meant, and out of hell
there is no redemption. The Gospels have preserved
another saying of the Son of God which
presupposes the existence of purgatory: <q>And whosoever
shall speak a word against the Son of man, it
shall be forgiven him; but he that shall speak
against the Holy Ghost, it shall not be forgiven
him, neither in this world nor in the world to
come.</q> There are, then, sins which can be atoned
for in the next world.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Release, O Lord, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Eleventh Day.</head>

<p>
With regard to the doctrine of purgatory the
apostles taught as their divine Master did.
St. Paul says: <q>For other foundation no man can
lay but that which is laid, which is Christ Jesus.
Now if any man build upon this foundation, gold,
silver, precious stones, wood, hay, stubble, every
man's work shall be manifest; for the day of the
Lord shall declare it, because it shall be revealed in
fire, and the fire shall try every man's work of what
sort it is. If any man's work abide, which he hath
built thereon, he shall receive a reward. If any
man's work burn he shall suffer loss: but he himself
<pb n='448'/><anchor id='Pg448'/>
shall be saved, but so as by fire.</q>&mdash;1 Cor. iii. 12.
He who appears before the Judgment Seat of God
with works still stained and imperfect, will reach
indeed his happy end, but not before those stains
and imperfections have been cleared away by a process
which is like unto the crucible of fire. The
fire which the Apostle speaks of cannot be the fire
of tribulation, or the sufferings of this life; for he
speaks of a fire which burns on the Judgment Day;
that is, after this life. Again, it cannot mean the
mere ordeal of the Judgment, because here the soul
is not only tried, but also burns and suffers from the
burning. Nor can it mean the fire of hell, because
he who burns in the fire will come out of it and be
saved, which cannot be said of those in hell. The
Apostle could only have had the fire of purgatory in
view&mdash;that fire which burns for the purification of
souls not quite spotless, and which will continue
until the Day of General Judgment.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Release, O Lord, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twelfth Day.</head>

<p>
Tradition excludes every doubt, even the least
shadow of doubt, as to the existence of purgatory.
We have testimony from a whole army of
renowned writers of the Church: Sts. Augustine,
Chrysostom, Epiphanius, Jerome, Cyril, Gregory,
up to Tertullian who lived in the second century.
The tradition is contained not only in the writings
of the Holy Fathers, but also in the practice of the
Church reaching down to the apostolic age, according
<pb n='449'/><anchor id='Pg449'/>
to which prayers and sacrifices were at all times
offered up to God for the souls of the departed.
Tertullian speaks of the sacrifices for the dead as of
an apostolic tradition, and St. John Damascene says,
in his sermon on the dead: <q>The apostles and disciples
of our divine Saviour, who had seen the eternal
Word with their own eyes, and had converted
the multitudes of the living world, taught that in
the awful, immaculate and life-giving mysteries of the
Eucharist, remembrance should be made of those
who died in the Lord.</q> In confirmation of it he
alleges the testimony of St. John Chrysostom in
these words: <q>That John, who on account of his
eloquence was called the golden-mouthed, teaches
that not inconsiderately or accidentally was it ordained
by those wise disciples of God and transmitted
to the Church, that the priest should offer
prayers for the dead in the celebration of the awful
divine mysteries.</q>
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Release, O Lord, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirteenth Day.</head>

<p>
We will now hear from the great St. Augustine,
Bishop of Hippo. I am quoting from his
treatise on the care for the dead. Mark how beautifully
he writes: <q>We read in the book of Machabees
that there were sacrifices offered up for the
dead, but even if there had been no mention made
of the subject in the pages of the Old Testament, the
authority of the Church would be sufficient as manifested
in her practice, according to which the priest
at the altar makes commemoration of the faithful departed.</q>
<pb n='450'/><anchor id='Pg450'/>
By her funeral rites, offices and commemorations
of the dead, as well as her ancient Ordos,
the Catholic Church has at all times clearly and
definitely testified to, and declared her belief in, the
existence of purgatory. Further, she has solemnly
declared it an article of faith in several Councils&mdash;as,
for instance, in the General Council of Trent, which
defines that there is a purgatory, and that the faithful
can come to the assistance of the souls suffering
therein by their prayers, and oblations of the most
holy sacrifice of the Mass. And it even threatens
with excommunication from the Church all those
who maintain that every penitent sinner, having received
justification, is forgiven as to his guilt and
eternal punishment in such a way that there remains
no temporal punishment to be expiated in purgatory.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Release, O Lord, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fourteenth Day.</head>

<p>
What a touching proof we have of the faith in
the intercession of the living for the dead, in
the story of the life of St. Monica, the mother of St.
Augustine! As her son stood by the bedside of his
dying mother, and with difficulty tried to restrain
his tears, Monica said to him: <q>Only one thing I
beg of thee; remember me always at the altar of
God, wherever thou dost chance to be.</q> St. Augustine,
therefore, often offered up the holy sacrifice for
his mother, and in his <q>Confessions</q> he entreats God
in the following touching prayer: <q>O God, grant
that all Thy servants, who are my brothers and to
<pb n='451'/><anchor id='Pg451'/>
whom I have dedicated this book, grant that all who
read these prayers may, in their prayers before Thy
altar, think of Thy handmaid, my dearest mother,
and pray for her in loving remembrance.</q> When
St. Paul says that at the mention of the sacred name
of Jesus every knee shall bend in heaven, on earth
and under the earth, by this last expression <q>under
the earth,</q> according to the general opinion of the
Holy Fathers of the Church, he pointed to that temporal,
intermediate place, wherein imperfect souls
must abide until they are purified from all stain of
sin, but even yet, while still there, are united in common
adoration with the saints who are in the full
enjoyment of heaven, as well as with all the Christians
of the Church Militant on earth. But St. Paul
teaches us no less by example to offer up prayers and
petitions to God almighty for the souls of those who
have died in the Lord.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Release, O Lord, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fifteenth Day.</head>

<p>
We may, without great difficulty, infer the existence
of purgatory from the truths known by
faith. Our faith teaches us that in the Sacrament of
Penance our sins are forgiven, together with the
eternal punishment due to them. The temporal
punishment due to them is not always forgiven, however,
and consequently it remains to be endured
either in this world or in the next. Call to mind the
examples of David, Moses, Peter and Mary Magdalene.
They were all forgiven their sins and the
<pb n='452'/><anchor id='Pg452'/>
eternal punishment due to them, and yet how much
did those dear servants of God bewail their offences
during their whole lives and expiate the temporal
punishment due to them! Again there is another
argument and ground on which our reason demands
the existence of a purgatory. It may be that a soul
just departed this life is free from all mortal sin&mdash;even
free from all temporal punishment due to grievous
sin, but perhaps not free from certain light and
venial sins, which, though not destroying the grace of
God in the soul, still darken and stain its full splendor.
It may be that all those venial sins are atoned
for and wiped away by the patiently borne agony of
death, but how often it happens that the Christian is
suddenly surprised by death in different forms, and
when least expecting it. It would be contrary to
God's mercy and justice to cast that soul into hell,
or to receive it at once into heaven.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Release, O Lord, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Sixteenth Day.</head>

<p>
The doctrine that sinners, even after the guilt and
eternal punishment due to sin are remitted, have
still, as a rule, to satisfy the justice of God in some
way, has been acknowledged by the Church both in
deed and by express word. By deed, because of her
severe penitential discipline in the early days of the
Church, because of the works of penance enjoined in
the confessional, and the granting at all times of indulgences.
By express word because of the definition of
the Council of Trent. Now if according to the certain
<pb n='453'/><anchor id='Pg453'/>
doctrine of faith, some temporal satisfaction remains
to be made after the remission of sin and eternal
punishment, what, we ask, will become of those souls
who are suddenly called away before they have done
such penance as their sins required&mdash;before they
have given full satisfaction? Into heaven, where
nothing impure can enter, they cannot be received
until the full debt is paid. Into hell they cannot be
cast, because they died in a state of grace and are
friends and children of God. Therefore, reason says,
there must be a place where those just and holy,
though not yet thoroughly cleansed souls, must linger
till purified completely, and fully worthy of God's
sacred presence. Were it otherwise our reason would
be darkened and troubled by doubts, either as to the
justice or as to the infinite mercy of God. Reason
tells us that there is a state of virtue not good enough
for heaven, and a state of vice not bad enough for
hell. Common sense tells us that there is a difference
between sin and sin, and that consequently
there must be a difference in the punishment.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Release, O Lord, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Seventeenth Day.</head>

<p>
The souls in purgatory suffer. They are sent
there to suffer. They are detained there to
suffer. The time of action is gone; the time of
passive suffering has come. Their whole existence,
or life, is, as it were, taken up with suffering. What
are they suffering? Of what kind and character are
their sufferings? The pains of purgatory are just the
<pb n='454'/><anchor id='Pg454'/>
same as the torments of hell, with the exception of
eternity and despair. The difference between the
two is, that the pains of purgatory come to an end,
and are not severed from the sweet hope of eternal
happiness. Like the pains of hell, so also the pains
of purgatory are of two kinds. They are the pain
of loss and the pain of sense. These two kinds of
pain correspond to the twofold disorder contained in
every sin. For every sin is first of all an aversion or
turning away from God, the highest and uncreated
good&mdash;either a complete aversion as in the case of
mortal sin, or a partial aversion as in the case of
venial sin. Second, every sin is a conversion to, or
a turning towards, a created, real or apparent good
as our highest good, which is, of course, a disorderly
conversion. Now this twofold inordinateness must be
expiated by a twofold corresponding punishment.
For wherein a man sins, says the Scripture, therein
is he punished.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Release, O Lord, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Eighteenth Day.</head>

<p>
Man sins, and thus turns away from God; the
punishment, therefore, must be an eternal or
temporary deprivation of God, the highest good of
man. He sins, and thus turns towards a created
good, and derives pleasure and satisfaction from it;
the punishment, therefore, for this illicit, sensual
pleasure, is the pain of sense, the pain inflicted by
created things. Now fire is a pain of sense; and it
is a doctrine sufficiently warranted by Scripture and
tradition, that the fire of purgatory is a real fire, by
<pb n='455'/><anchor id='Pg455'/>
which the souls are chastised and purified. The
Holy Fathers explain that the greatest imaginable
sufferings here on earth, the most dreadful martyrdom
of the holy confessors of Christ, the worst pains
of the most terrible illness, can bear no comparison
with the torments and pains suffered by the poor
souls in purgatory. Well known is the exclamation
of St. Augustine, <q>Here burn, here cut, here crucify,
but spare me in eternity, O God!</q> The sufferings
of this life can be soothed by consolation, can be
softened by many distractions; now and again there
is a respite granted to the greatest sufferer, and time
heals many woes. But the sufferings of purgatory
continue without any alleviation or interruption.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Release, O Lord, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Nineteenth Day.</head>

<p>
According to the writings of the Fathers, the
pain of loss is the greatest of all the pains of
purgatory. Together with the bitter remembrance of
having done evil and omitted to do good, is the consciousness
of being deprived of the beatific vision,
than which there can be no greater pain. St. Alphonsus
says: <q>Far greater than the pains of the senses
are the pains of loss arising from the deprivation of
the presence of God.</q> Because the poor souls are
inflamed with not only the natural, but the supernatural
love of God, they are almost violently drawn
towards Him, their supreme good; and because they
have the consciousness of being debarred from perfect
union with God by their own sins and imperfections,
<pb n='456'/><anchor id='Pg456'/>
they feel such exceeding great pain that it
would kill them were it possible for them to die.
<q>Therefore,</q> says St. Chrysostom, <q>is this pain of
loss greater than that of sense, and the greatest of
all pains. A thousand fires of hell could not produce
greater pain than that which is caused by the
fully realized loss of God.</q> Here on earth, while
confined in their bodies of sin, their souls could not
enjoy the beatific vision; but once delivered from
their mortal bodies, the time is come when they are
able to see God, Who would be their everlasting joy
were it not for their own fault. It is this pain of
separation that makes the pain of purgatory a cleansing
fire in the fullest sense of the word.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Release, O Lord, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twentieth Day.</head>

<p>
In this valley of tears the sighs of holy persons
are full of pain and sorrow, of pining after God
and heaven. How painful must have been this burning
love and yearning desire in such souls as St.
Paul's, St. Augustine's and St. Teresa's! Yet what
was their suffering compared to the consuming fire of
yearning in the souls of purgatory? For, however
much we may pine after God, our only good, still
while on earth we have many things that comfort us
and deaden our pain. The very burden of our body,
the distracting events of life, the possibility of great
age, or larger store of merit, all these things are so
many means of comfort to us. But the poor souls in
purgatory have none of these consolations; there is
nothing to assuage their pain of yearning and unfulfilled
<pb n='457'/><anchor id='Pg457'/>
desire. More than the panting hart do they
thirst after the fountain of eternal light and life.
This unspeakable thirst is, in their case, all pure pain,
unmingled with any soothing alloy. Oh, what a
burning sea of sorrow those poor souls are plunged
into! Flames within, flames without, flames all
around them! Were it not that God's omnipotent
hand upheld them, their spirit would almost be consumed
by those flames of fire. As you have noticed
I have left you to draw from the proofs, as also from
the description of the flames of purgatory, your own
pious deductions and resolutions. But now I ask is
there a doctrine in the Church which calls for more
serious and pious consideration than this belief in
purgatory, for your own spiritual benefit, and then
for the help you can afford those whom God's justice
has condemned there?
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Release, O Lord, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-first Day.</head>

<p>
It has always been a doctrine of the Church, no
less than a practice, that by our prayers and
good works we can help the souls in purgatory. For
the Church not only taught the doctrine, but from the
earliest times encouraged the faithful to offer up the
holy sacrifice for them. It was at the great Council
of Trent that the doctrine became an article of faith.
We are united to them in the communion of saints.
This community is like the members of one body.
As in the body all the members help each other, so
in the communion of saints all have a share in the
<pb n='458'/><anchor id='Pg458'/>
common goods, as the Psalmist says, <q>I am a partaker
with all them that fear Thee.</q> If Christ could
make vicarious atonement to His heavenly Father for
our sins, and the eternal punishment due to them,
then, also, the members of the community founded
by Him can, through His power and merits, assist
and make satisfaction for one another as regards the
temporal punishment due to their sins. So that, as
the Apostle says, the abundance of one may supply
the want of the other, so that there may be an equality.
The souls in purgatory, then, since they are
souls departed in the love of God, belong with us to
that great brotherhood, the communion of saints.
So we can come to their assistance, and by our efforts
help to discharge the debt they are still owing to
God's justice. Or united to them by the bonds of
love, we form as it were one person. We pass the
value of our good works to them, and our heavenly
Father looks upon the price we pay for them as if
paid by themselves.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Release, O Lord, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-second Day.</head>

<p>
Let us consider more particularly by what means
we can assist the poor souls. We can greatly
and powerfully assist them, and the holy Council of
Trent expressly points out the means we should use.
It says particularly that the faithful can help the poor
souls detained in purgatory by their prayers, and by
the most holy sacrifice of the Mass. This, as you
will perhaps observe, has been said several times
<pb n='459'/><anchor id='Pg459'/>
already in this book. True, but it is in order that I
may point out the conditions which are required to
make those means effective that I again speak of
them now. What is necessary, primarily, is that we
have the intention of helping the poor souls, otherwise
our good works are all put down to our own
account, or if we do not stand in need of them, they
are put into what is called the treasury of the Church,
and then they are beyond our disposition. It is not,
however, necessary to make a new intention before
every action. It is sufficient to make once for all an
intention of doing certain things for the sake of the
suffering souls, and then not withdrawing it again.
Still it is advisable to renew it now and again, as
for instance at morning prayers or at Mass. It is
necessary to be in a state of grace if we wish to help
the souls by our good works or by our own personal
prayers, penance, indulgences, and so forth. He
who is in a state of sin cannot make satisfaction for
himself; how then can he do so for others? How
can he who is a captive redeem himself, or give
freedom to others?
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Release, O Lord, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-third Day.</head>

<p>
The giving of alms for the benefit of the souls in
purgatory, is one of the means over which the
Fathers of the Church grew eloquent. Nor indeed
is it necessary to make use of the sayings of the early
Fathers, for we can find abundant proof of the efficacy
of alms related in the Holy Scriptures. The
<pb n='460'/><anchor id='Pg460'/>
angel Raphael said to Tobias: <q>Alms delivereth
from death, and the same is that which purgeth away
sins, and maketh to find mercy and life everlasting.</q>
Elsewhere we find: <q>Water quencheth a flaming fire,
and alms resisteth sin.</q> But let us listen to the
Fathers of the Church. St. Leo writes: <q>Alms
atone for sin, destroy death, and extinguish the
flames of eternal fire.</q> St. Chrysostom calls alms-giving
<q>a heavenly ladder, leading to God's right
hand, and a sure refuge for those who give as well as
for those who receive.</q> St. Paulinus praises a Roman
nobleman, who on the death of his beloved wife assembled
all the poor and destitute of the city in St.
Peter's Church, and distributed food among them in
order to comfort and help her whose loss he bewailed.
And St. Hieronymus, speaking of the same nobleman,
says that while other husbands adorn their wife's graves with
violets, roses and lilies, this one pours the balm of
alms over the sacred dust and venerable remains of
his beloved wife. The petition for alms from the
worthy poor is like the knocking at your door of a
poor soul in purgatory.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Release, O Lord, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-fourth Day.</head>

<p>
What a beautiful Catholic practice is this of giving
of the goods which the good God has
entrusted to us, for the benefit of the poor souls!
Could we not also set aside something for such a
noble purpose? The alms we give to the poor souls
in purgatory may be likened to so many checks
<pb n='461'/><anchor id='Pg461'/>
signed by names dear to God, and which when presented
He will not dishonor. When it is difficult for
us to give money in alms, we can at least give other
things of less value&mdash;even things that are no longer
of use to us. How many things there are in our
homes that are not of the least use to us, which if
given in alms for the suffering souls might be of the
greatest benefit to us as well as to them! We give
them in alms to the poor and forsaken ones on earth,
that they may benefit them as well as the poor forsaken
souls in purgatory. Perhaps you have a list of
debtors, and perhaps in that list there are many from
whom you never expect to recover anything. Why not
make a promise, in case of the recovery of certain
sums, to give half to the deserving poor for the benefit
of the suffering souls in purgatory? It is not impossible
that the guardian angel of purgatory may help to
restore to us money otherwise lost. Remember it is
not the wealthy alone who can give alms for this purpose,
but the poor as well; at least they can give
their good-will. Do you remember that the angels
sang at the birth of the Redeemer: <q>Peace on earth
to men of good-will</q>?
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Release, O Lord, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-fifth Day.</head>

<p>
We have the authority of Holy Scripture for the
efficacy of prayers: <q>It is a holy and a wholesome
thought to pray for the dead.</q> It is holy because
it is most pleasing to God; it is wholesome
because we have reason to believe that through the
infinite mercy and compassion of His Sacred Heart,
<pb n='462'/><anchor id='Pg462'/>
Our Lord accepts prayers offered in atonement for
the sins of those suffering in purgatory. If the prayers
we offer for temporal goods are often heard and
granted, how much more so when we offer them for
spiritual goods, for the souls tenderly loved by God?
Well might St. Augustine say: <q>One cannot conceive
a holier or more wholesome practice than praying
for the dead.</q> The <q>Imitation of Christ</q> has
the following: <q>Full of love and charity, we must
remember in our prayers the souls of the faithful departed,
but particularly the souls of our parents,
friends and relations, and those who have been our
benefactors on earth. For that is a work of real love
and charity. As we entertain the most earnest hopes
that we shall be remembered when we shall have departed
this life, we ought to make every effort in our
power to assist them to arrive speedily at their promised
abode of bliss, and by our prayers shorten the
weary days of their pilgrimage in purgatory. And
we must remember that every one who actively assists
in the deliverance of these poor souls, gains for
himself the greatest advantages. By offering his
prayers for their eternal repose, he by no means loses
the fruits of those prayers, for they are remembered
to him, and are before him when his time comes to
die. And moreover one is rewarded even in this
life for such prayers.</q>
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Release, O Lord, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-sixth Day.</head>

<p>
The holy sacrifice of the Mass is the surest and
most effectual means we possess for procuring
<pb n='463'/><anchor id='Pg463'/>
the eternal repose and happiness of the departed.
<q>The sacrament of love, the revelation of unity, and
the bond of friendship,</q> says St. Augustine. <q>We
pray for all who have departed this life, with the
most confident conviction that the prayers at the
altar are the most profitable to them,</q> says St. Cyril.
And again: <q>Supposing a king who was offended by
a subject has banished him from his kingdom, and
the friends of the outlaw wish to restore him to the
king's favor, and for that purpose form a deputation
to the royal personage, and presenting a costly gift,
venture to plead for pardon for the offender; would
not the king comply with their request, and either
grant the pardon, or mitigate the punishment to some
extent? Well, in like manner we, although sinners,
plead for pardon from the King of heaven and earth
for our banished friends, and with much surer hopes
of success, for the gift we offer is not an earthly
crown, but is the body and blood of His own well-beloved
Son, Who has bled for the sins of the whole
world.</q> The holy sacrifice is, I again repeat, the
most effectual and the most powerful means we have
for assisting the suffering souls in purgatory.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Release, O Lord, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-seventh Day.</head>

<p>
Let me now suggest how you may act and pray
during the holy sacrifice. At the <hi rend='italic'>Confiteor</hi>
let us imagine the souls in the depths of purgatory;
place ourselves in the midst of them and hearken to
their entreaties for help. At the <hi rend='italic'>Elevation</hi> let us
<pb n='464'/><anchor id='Pg464'/>
say: <q>O my God, in memory of the painful death
Thou didst endure, have compassion on these poor
souls for whom I pray. O my God, behold Thy
precious blood, which was shed for their deliverance.
Oh, let the saving fruits of this precious blood
come to the poor souls, let its cleansing streams flow
into purgatory. Remember with what great love Thou
didst shed it for Thy elect, so many of whom are
now languishing in the fiery dungeon.</q> We can fix
our eyes on the crucifix placed over the altar; it will
help us to make our supplications more direct. The
thorn-crowned head will remind us of our superiors,
spiritual and temporal, perhaps in purgatory. The
wounded right hand our parents, friends and benefactors.
The left hand the souls of those who have
wished to do us harm in life. Nor would it be amiss,
while contemplating the wound in Our Saviour's
side, to recommend one's own soul. At the <hi rend='italic'>Communion</hi>
when we see the sacred Host in the hands of
the priest, let us consider that it is the body of Him
Who commanded us to pray for the dead. For it is
He Who said: <q>If you ask the Father anything in
My name He will give it to you.</q> Let us remind
Him of His words, and implore Him by His love.
This is a favorable moment to have our prayers
heard.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Release, O Lord, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-eighth Day.</head>

<p>
The Catholic doctrine of the intercession of the
saints must not be lost sight of in this series
of thoughts on the November devotion. In our
<pb n='465'/><anchor id='Pg465'/>
wants, personal wants, spiritual and temporal, we,
true to our Catholic instinct, first address ourselves to
our Mother Mary for help. We must not forget her
in the matter of the poor souls. Mary's loving heart
is not less loving for the souls in purgatory than it
was for the same souls while in life. How can she
abandon them? She never abandons a sinner on
earth. For a stronger reason she does not forget
the souls of the just. Mary loves them still, for her
love is eternal. She is the Mother of Him Who
said, <q>I was in prison and ye visited Me;</q> of
Him Who descended into hell. Therefore it is an
opinion well worthy of acceptance and respect,
founded on trustworthy revelations and authentic
declarations, that the Blessed Virgin assists in a most
special manner the souls in purgatory. They are
souls and are poor, and therefore the Blessed Virgin
loves them. They are souls and are suffering; souls
are the magnet of Mary's heart. Priceless is the
value of a soul, and no one has better shown it than
Our Lord Himself. Satan, by offering Him the
whole world, could not prevail upon Him to fall
down; but by trying to rob Him of souls he caused
Him to bow down even to the earth under the weight
of the cross. But, after Jesus, who could better
know the value of a soul than Mary, who comes next
to Him in the work He did for souls?
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Release, O Lord, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-ninth Day.</head>

<p>
Mary stood by when her Son died for the redemption
of souls. But through her whole
<pb n='466'/><anchor id='Pg466'/>
holy life she had constantly before her mind the
work He had come to accomplish. Now she sees
those souls red with the divine blood by which they
were purchased. She lives in the joys of heaven, to
which all souls are likewise destined. Her Son gave
His life for the souls of men; but she as Mother
gave her Son for that purpose. Therefore the love
of her heart embraces also purgatory; and therefore
she is also the loving Mother of the souls in purgatory.
The woman in the Gospel who so eagerly and
persistently sought after her lost groat, is but a faint
symbol of the love of Mary for the souls which she
has lost&mdash;though only for a time&mdash;which she sees
separated from heaven, from her Son, and from herself,
and suffering in the flames of fire. She burns
with love for those poor souls, well remembering the
words of her divine Son, when He said that even a
cup of water given in His name would be rewarded
with the joy of heaven. And if Jesus, while hanging
on the cross, cried out, <q>I thirst,</q> which, according
to the opinion of the Holy Fathers, meant
<q>I thirst for souls,</q> can we suppose that Mary will
not satisfy His desire, and still His thirst? <q>Those
who love and truly serve this most gentle Mother
can indeed be called fortunate, for not alone here
on earth, but also hereafter in purgatory, will she
be their helper and comforter.</q>
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Release, O Lord, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirtieth Day.</head>

<p>
All the great servants of God had a great devotion
to the souls in purgatory, as we have
<pb n='467'/><anchor id='Pg467'/>
seen. But as Our Lady is Queen of the heavenly
host, we cannot better conclude the treatment of the
month than by giving the last consideration to her.
Mary loves the poor souls in purgatory, because she
has gone through a fire of tribulation&mdash;not in punishment
for her sins, for she had none&mdash;but that she
might have more compassion for us, and be more
fully entitled to the name by which she is so well
known, <q>Comforter of the afflicted.</q> For this
reason her life was a sea of sorrow; for this reason
she endured tribulation, poverty, exile, and persecution.
For this reason she suffered tortures of mind
and soul, in the three days' loss of her Child, and in
the more tragic separation on the cross. All these
sufferings were a real purgatory to her. Let us
therefore venerate Mary, and beg of her even now,
while we still sojourn in this valley of tears, to daily
increase our ardor and give us perseverance in good
works, to obtain for us a happy death. But the best
means to obtain this grace is to imitate the love of
the Blessed Virgin for the poor souls. Let us try
and be zealous in the cause of the poor souls, and
often have recourse to this Mother of mercy for the
same purpose. In the recitation of the holy Rosary
we have a spiritual bunch of roses, which we can
often offer to her for the faithful departed. Let us
scatter these spiritual roses plentifully over the graves
of our departed parents and friends. Mary, the
Mother of poor souls, will find them fragrant, and
not only accept our offering but also protect and
guard us when our turn comes to die.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
Release, O Lord, etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='468'/><anchor id='Pg468'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Mass for the Souls in Purgatory.</head>

<p>
Before Mass.
</p>

<p>
O merciful Lord, we offer Thee the precious
blood of the spotless Lamb, in behalf of the
suffering souls in purgatory, whose sole desire is to
see and glorify Thee in heaven. Open to them, O
Lord, the infinite treasures of Thy merits; apply to
them the fruits of Thy Passion and death, and
through the adorable sacrifice of the Mass, release
them from the debt due to Thy sovereign justice.
Amen.
</p>

<p>
Confiteor.
</p>

<p>
We confess our sins, O merciful God, in humility
and sorrow of heart, and we acknowledge
that in Thy sight no one living is justified. Woe to
us, if Thou judge us according to Thy justice. To appease
Thy anger, O Lord, we recur to the unbloody
sacrifice of Him Who was nailed to the cross for our
salvation, and who ceases not to intercede for us in
heaven. O God of all clemency! forgive us our
sins, we entreat Thee, and forgive also the sins committed
by our deceased brethren, in the days of
their mortal pilgrimage. Let Thy mercy prevail
over Thy justice, and let the voice of the blood of
Jesus plead more loudly for pardon than the voice
of our iniquities cries for vengeance. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Introit.
</p>

<p>
Eternal rest give unto them, O Lord, and let
perpetual light shine upon them. <q>To Thee
is due the hymn, O God, in Sion, and to Thee shall
<pb n='469'/><anchor id='Pg469'/>
the vow be paid in Jerusalem.</q> Oh, hear my prayer:
to Thee shall all flesh come. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Kyrie.
</p>

<p>
O Jesus, show that Thou art the God of mercy,
and take pity on the suffering souls who sigh
and weep for the day of their deliverance. Oh,
admit them without delay into Thy bosom!
</p>

<p>
Collect.
</p>

<p>
O God, the Creator and Redeemer of all the faithful,
give to the souls of Thy servants departed
the remission of all their sins; that through pious
supplications they may obtain that pardon which
they have always desired. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Epistle.
</p>

<p>
<q>And we will not have you ignorant, brethren,
concerning them that are asleep, that you
be not sorrowful, even as others who have no hope.
For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again:
even so them who have slept through Jesus, will
God bring with Him. For this we say unto you in
the word of the Lord, that we who are alive, who
remain unto the coming of the Lord, shall not prevent
them who have slept. For the Lord Himself
shall come down from heaven with commandment,
and with the voice of an archangel, and with the
trumpet of God: and the dead who are in Christ,
shall rise first. Then we who are alive, who are left,
shall be taken up together with them in the clouds
to meet Christ, into the air, and so shall we be
always with the Lord. Wherefore comfort ye one
another with these words.</q>&mdash;1 Thess. 12-17.
</p>

<pb n='470'/><anchor id='Pg470'/>

<p>
Gradual.
</p>

<p>
<q>The sorrows of death have compassed me: and
the perils of hell have found me. I met
with trouble and sorrow: and I called on the name
of the Lord. O Lord, deliver my soul: The Lord is
merciful and just, and now Our God showeth mercy.
The Lord is the keeper of little ones: I was humbled,
and He delivered me.</q>&mdash;Ps. cxiv. 3-6. Eternal
rest give unto them, O Lord, and let perpetual light
shine upon them. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Gospel.
</p>

<p>
<q>Martha, therefore, said to Jesus: Lord, if
Thou hadst been here, my brother had not
died. But now also I know that whatsoever Thou
wilt ask of God, God will give it Thee. Jesus saith
to her: Thy brother shall rise again. Martha
saith to Him: I know that he shall rise again in the
resurrection, at the last day. Jesus said to her: I
am the Resurrection and the Life: he that believeth
in Me, although he be dead, shall live: And every
one that liveth, and believeth in Me, shall not die
forever. Believest thou this? She saith to Him:
Yea, Lord, I have believed that Thou art Christ, the
Son of the living God, Who art come into this
world.</q>&mdash;John xi. 21-27.
</p>

<p>
Offertory.
</p>

<p>
Lord Jesus Christ, King of glory, deliver the
souls of the faithful departed from the flames
of hell, and from the deep pit. Deliver them from
the lion's mouth, lest hell swallow them; lest they
fall into darkness. And let the standard-bearer, St.
<pb n='471'/><anchor id='Pg471'/>
Michael, bring them into holy light, which Thou
didst promise of old to Abraham and his posterity.
We offer Thee, O Lord, a sacrifice of praise and
prayer: accept them in behalf of the souls we commemorate
this day, and let them pass from death to
life, which Thou didst promise of old to Abraham
and His posterity. Remember, O Lord, Thy compassion,
and Thy tender mercies, which are from the
beginning. For ourselves also we pray: <q>One
favor I have asked of Thee, and this I will seek;
that I may dwell in Thy house all the days of my
life. That I may see Thy beauty, and dwell forever
in Thy temple. Amen.</q>
</p>

<p>
Secret.
</p>

<p>
Have mercy, we beseech Thee, O Lord, on the
souls of Thy servants [<hi rend='italic'>name them</hi>], for whom
we offer this Victim of praise, humbly beseeching
Thy majesty, that by this sacrifice they may arrive
at rest eternal, through Jesus Christ Our Lord.
Amen.
</p>

<p>
Preface.
</p>

<p>
It is truly just, and reasonable, and salutary, to
return Thee thanks at all times, and in all
places, O almighty Father, eternal God. Through
Jesus Christ Our Lord, and through His merits, we
hope for a glorious resurrection; so that if the sentence
of death alarm and deject, the promise of immortality
consoles and animates us; for to Thy
faithful servants death is only a passage from this life
to a better. Therefore we unite with all the blessed
citizens of the heavenly country in singing a hymn
to Thy glory, and saying without ceasing: Holy,
<pb n='472'/><anchor id='Pg472'/>
holy, holy, Lord God of Sabaoth: heaven and
earth are full of Thy glory. Blessed is He that
cometh in the name of the Lord; His blood pleads
for pardon, and His voice rises ever to the throne of
mercy in behalf of His miserable creatures. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Canon.
</p>

<p>
O Father almighty, Whose kind providence extendeth
to all creation, cast an eye of pity on
the souls that ardently love Thee, and whose greatest
suffering is to be separated from Thee. Remember,
O Lord, that they are the work of Thy hands, and
that they have been purchased by the infinite merits
of Thy Son, Jesus Christ. Oh, will not the sound of
that sweet name move Thee to pity and forgiveness?
We offer in their behalf, the precious blood which
streamed from the sacred side of our dying Redeemer
on the cross; we offer Thee the powerful intercession
of the most blessed Mother of Jesus and Queen of
martyrs; we offer Thee the prayers of St. Joseph,
St. Peter, St. Paul, and all the saints, together with
the earnest supplications of Thy Church on earth;
and we beseech Thee to take pity on the souls Thou
lovest so tenderly. Show them Thy glory, receive
them into Thy heart, and inundate them with that
torrent of bliss, of which Thou art the inexhaustible
fountain. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Elevation.
</p>

<p>
O sacred Host! Victim of man's salvation! be
propitious to us and hear our prayers. Precious
blood of Jesus, shed to wash away the sins of
mankind, sanctify our soul, and plead for mercy for
the souls in purgatory! Amen.
</p>

<pb n='473'/><anchor id='Pg473'/>

<p>
Pater Noster.
</p>

<p>
O divine Jesus! at Whose name every knee doth
bend, in heaven, on earth, and in hell!
Sovereign Judge of the living and the dead! may
Thy name be honored by the deliverance of the
souls for whom we pray. May the gates of heaven
be open to receive them, and may Thy will, which
desires the salvation of all men, be this day perfectly
done in their regard. Grant that, after having been
fed on the bread of sorrow, they may be fed with the
living bread of heaven in the possession of Thyself.
We implore Thy forgiveness of the sins of our
parents, friends, and benefactors, particularly of the
sins to which we unhappily have been accessory.
Preserve us from those avenging flames, which we
have but too well merited by our repeated abuse of
grace, our tepidity in Thy service, and our negligence
in resisting temptation. Deliver us from sin, the
greatest of all evils, and enable us to feel and understand
that it is a dreadful thing to fall into the
hands of the living God. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Agnus Dei.
</p>

<p>
Lamb of God, Who by death didst trample on
the devil, about to seize his helpless prey,
have mercy on the souls in purgatory! Lamb of
God, Who wast offered as a sacrifice of expiation,
that by Thy death we might be rescued from the
slavery of sin, have mercy on the souls in purgatory!
Lamb of God, Who wast immolated for love of us
that we might pass from the region of malediction to
the true land of promise, grant eternal rest to the
souls in purgatory! Amen.
</p>

<pb n='474'/><anchor id='Pg474'/>

<p>
Communion.
</p>

<p>
May eternal light shine on them, O Lord, together
with Thy saints forever, for Thou art
merciful. Grant them, O Lord, eternal rest, and let
perpetual light shine upon them. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Post-Communion.
</p>

<p>
O God, Who willest that while we pray for the
souls in purgatory, we should at the same
time remember the most essential of our duties, grant
us through Thy infinite merits and unbounded charity,
the pardon of our past negligences. We will
not defer the all-important duty of penance, lest it
soon be too late to discharge our debts to Thee. We
will fervently and perseveringly pray for the souls in
purgatory, and apply to them also the fruits of our
almsdeeds and exercises of mortification. O bountiful
God! bless these resolutions, and strengthen us
to observe them faithfully. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Last Gospel.
</p>

<p>
<q>I know that my Redeemer liveth, and in the Last
Day I shall rise out of the earth: and I shall
be clothed again with my skin, and in my flesh I
shall see my God. Whom I myself shall see, and
my eyes shall behold, and not another. This my
hope is laid up in my bosom.</q>&mdash;Job xix. 25-27.
After having sat in darkness, and dwelt amidst the
shades of death, we shall rise to the contemplation
of eternal life forever! <q>In Thee, O Lord, have I
hoped: let me never be confounded!</q> Amen.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='475'/><anchor id='Pg475'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Litany of the Saints.</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Ant.</hi> Remember not, O Lord, our offences, nor those of our
parents; neither take Thou vengeance of our sins.
</p>

<lg>
<l>Lord, have mercy on us.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Lord, have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Christ, have mercy on us.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Christ, have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Lord, have mercy on us.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Lord, have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Christ, hear us.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Christ, graciously hear us.</hi></l>
<l>God the Father of heaven, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>God the Son, Redeemer of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>God the Holy Ghost, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Trinity, one God, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Mary, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Mother of God, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Virgin of virgins, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint Michael, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint Gabriel, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint Raphael, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>All ye holy angels and archangels, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>All ye holy orders of blessed spirits, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint John Baptist, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint Joseph, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>All ye holy patriarchs and prophets, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint Peter, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint Paul, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint Andrew, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint James, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint John, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint Thomas, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint James, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint Philip, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint Bartholomew, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint Matthew, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint Simon, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint Thaddeus, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint Matthias, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint Barnabas, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint Luke, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<pb n='476'/><anchor id='Pg476'/>
<l>Saint Mark, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>All ye holy apostles and evangelists, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>All ye holy disciples of the Lord, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>All ye holy innocents, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>St. Stephen, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>St. Lawrence, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>St. Vincent, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>SS. Fabian and Sebastian, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>SS. John and Paul, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>SS. Cosmas and Damian, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>SS. Gervase and Protase, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>All ye holy martyrs, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint Sylvester, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint Gregory, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint Ambrose, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint Augustine, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint Jerome, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint Martin, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint Nicholas, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>All ye holy bishops and confessors, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>All ye holy doctors, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint Anthony, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint Benedict, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint Bernard, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint Dominic, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint Francis, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>All ye holy priests and Levites, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>All ye holy monks and hermits, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint Mary Magdalen, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint Agatha, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint Lucy, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint Agnes, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint Cecilia, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint Catharine, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>Saint Anastasia, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>All ye holy virgins and widows, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for us.</hi></l>
<l>All ye holy men and women, saints of God, <hi rend='italic'>Make intercession for us.</hi></l>
<l>Be merciful, <hi rend='italic'>Spare us, O Lord.</hi></l>
<l>Be merciful, <hi rend='italic'>Graciously hear us, O Lord.</hi></l>
<l>From all dangers that threaten us, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>From all evil, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>From all sin, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>From Thy wrath, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver us.</hi></l>
<pb n='477'/><anchor id='Pg477'/>
<l>From all dangers that threaten us, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>From the scourge of earthquakes, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>From sudden and unlooked-for death, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>From the snares of the devil, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>From anger, hatred, and every evil will, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>From the spirit of fornication, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>From lightning and tempest, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>From everlasting death, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>Through the mystery of Thy holy incarnation, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>Through Thy coming, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>Through Thy nativity, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>Through Thy baptism and holy fasting, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>Through Thy cross and Passion, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>Through Thy death and burial, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>Through Thy holy resurrection, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>Through Thine admirable ascension, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>Through the coming of the Holy Ghost, the Paraclete, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>In the day of judgment, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver us.</hi></l>
<l>We sinners, <hi rend='italic'>Beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That Thou wouldst spare us, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That Thou wouldst pardon us, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That Thou wouldst bring us to true penance, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That Thou wouldst vouchsafe to govern and preserve Thy
holy Church, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That Thou wouldst vouchsafe to preserve our Apostolic
Prelate, and all orders of the Church in holy
religion, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That Thou wouldst vouchsafe to humble the enemies of
holy Church, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That Thou wouldst vouchsafe to give peace and true
concord to Christian kings and princes, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That Thou wouldst vouchsafe to grant peace and unity
to all Christian people, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That Thou wouldst vouchsafe to confirm and preserve us
in Thy holy service, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That Thou wouldst lift up our minds to heavenly desires, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That Thou wouldst render eternal blessings to all our
benefactors, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That Thou wouldst deliver our souls and the souls of our
brethren, relations, and benefactors, from eternal
damnation, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That Thou wouldst vouchsafe to give and preserve the
fruits of the earth, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<pb n='478'/><anchor id='Pg478'/>
<l>That Thou wouldst vouchsafe to grant eternal rest to all the faithful departed, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That Thou wouldst vouchsafe graciously to hear us, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>Son of God, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>Lamb of God, Who takest away the sins of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Spare us, O Lord!</hi></l>
<l>Lamb of God, Who takest away the sins of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Graciously hear us, O Lord!</hi></l>
<l>Lamb of God, Who takest away the sins of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us!</hi></l>
<l>Christ, hear us.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Christ, graciously hear us.</hi></l>
<l>Lord, have mercy on us.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Christ, have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Lord, have mercy on us.</l>
</lg>

<p>
Our Father (<hi rend='italic'>secretly</hi>).
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> And lead us not into temptation,
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> But deliver us from evil.
</p>

<p>
Psalm LXIX.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Deus in Adjutorium.</hi>
</p>

<p>
O God, come to my assistance: O Lord, make
haste to help me.
</p>

<p>
Let them be confounded and ashamed that seek
after my soul.
</p>

<p>
Let them be turned backward, and blush for shame
that desire evils unto me.
</p>

<p>
Let them be straightway turned backward, blushing
for shame, that say to me: 'Tis well, 'tis well.
</p>

<p>
Let all that seek Thee be joyful and glad in Thee:
and let such as love Thy salvation say always, The
Lord be magnified.
</p>

<p>
But I am needy and poor: O God, help me.
</p>

<p>
Thou art my helper and my deliverer: O Lord,
make no long delay.
</p>

<pb n='479'/><anchor id='Pg479'/>

<p>
Glory be, etc.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Save Thy servants,
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Who hope in Thee, O my God.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Be unto us, O Lord, a tower of strength.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> From the face of the enemy.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Let not the enemy prevail against us.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Nor the son of iniquity approach to hurt us.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> O Lord, deal not with us according to our
sins.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Neither requite us according to our iniquities.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Let us pray for our Sovereign Pontiff [N.].
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> The Lord preserve him and give him life, and
make him blessed upon the earth, and deliver him
not up to the will of his enemies.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Let us pray for our benefactors.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Vouchsafe, O Lord, for Thy name's sake, to
reward with eternal life all them that do us good.
Amen.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Let us pray for the faithful departed.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Eternal rest give unto them, O Lord; and
let perpetual light shine upon them.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Let them rest in peace.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> For our absent brethren.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Save Thy servants, who hope in Thee, O my
God.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Send them help, O Lord, from the sanctuary.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And defend them out of Sion.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> O Lord, hear my prayer.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And let my cry come unto Thee.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Let Us Pray.</hi>
</p>

<p>
O God, Whose property is always to have mercy
and to spare, receive our humble petition, that
<pb n='480'/><anchor id='Pg480'/>
we, and all Thy servants who are bound by the
chain of sin, may, by the compassion of Thy goodness,
mercifully be absolved.
</p>

<p>
Graciously hear, we beseech Thee, O Lord, the
prayers of Thy suppliants, and forgive the sins of
them that confess to Thee; that, in Thy bounty,
Thou mayest grant us both pardon and peace.
</p>

<p>
Show forth upon us, O Lord, in Thy mercy, Thy
unspeakable loving kindness; that Thou mayest
both loose us from all our sins and deliver us from
the punishments which we deserve for them.
</p>

<p>
O God, Who by sin art offended, and by penance
pacified, mercifully regard the prayers of Thy people
making supplication to Thee, and turn away the
scourges of Thine anger, which we deserve for our
sins.
</p>

<p>
Almighty, everlasting God, have mercy upon Thy
servant [N.], our Sovereign Pontiff, and direct him,
according to Thy clemency, into the way of everlasting
salvation; that by Thy grace he may both
desire those things that are pleasing to Thee and
perform them with all his strength.
</p>

<p>
O God, from Whom all holy desires, all right
counsels, and all just works do come, give unto Thy
servants that peace which the world cannot give;
that our hearts being devoted to Thy commandments,
and the fear of our enemies being taken away,
our times, by Thy protection, may be peaceful.
</p>

<p>
Inflame, O Lord, our reins and heart with the fire
of the Holy Ghost; that we may serve Thee with a
chaste body, and please Thee with a clean heart.
</p>

<p>
O God, the Creator and Redeemer of all the
faithful, give to the souls of Thy servants departed
the remission of all their sins; that through pious
<pb n='481'/><anchor id='Pg481'/>
supplications they may obtain the pardon which they
have always desired.
</p>

<p>
Prompt, we beseech Thee, O Lord, our actions by
Thy inspirations, and further them with Thy continual
help; that every prayer and work of ours may
always begin from Thee, and through Thee be likewise
ended.
</p>

<p>
Almighty, everlasting God, Who hast dominion
over the living and the dead, and art merciful to all
whom Thou foreknowest will be Thine by faith and
works: we humbly beseech Thee that they for whom
we intend to pour forth our prayers, whether this
present world still detain them in the flesh, or the
world to come hath already received them stripped
of their mortal bodies, may, by the grace of Thy
loving kindness, and by the intercession of all the
saints, obtain the remission of all their sins. Through
Thy Son Jesus Christ Our Lord, Who liveth and
reigneth with Thee, in the unity of the Holy Spirit,
God, forever and ever.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> O Lord, hear my prayer.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And let my cry come unto Thee.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> May the almighty and merciful Lord graciously
hear us.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> And may the souls of the faithful departed,
through the mercy of God, rest in peace.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='482'/><anchor id='Pg482'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Seven Penitential Psalms.</head>

<p>
Ant. Remember not, O Lord, our offences, nor
those of our parents, and take not revenge
on our sins.
</p>

<p>
Psalm VI.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Domine ne in furore.</hi>
</p>

<p>
O Lord, rebuke me not in Thy indignation, nor
chastise me in Thy wrath.
</p>

<p>
Have mercy on me, O Lord, for I am weak: heal
me, O Lord, for my bones are troubled.
</p>

<p>
And my soul is troubled exceedingly: but Thou,
O Lord, how long?
</p>

<p>
Turn to me, O Lord, and deliver my soul: Oh,
save me for Thy mercy's sake.
</p>

<p>
For there is no one in death that is mindful of
Thee: and who shall confess to Thee in hell?
</p>

<p>
I have labored in my groanings, every night I will
wash my bed: I will water my couch with my tears.
</p>

<p>
My eye is troubled through indignation: I have
grown old amongst all my enemies.
</p>

<p>
Depart from me, all ye workers of iniquity: for
the Lord hath heard the voice of my weeping.
</p>

<p>
The Lord hath heard my supplication: the Lord
hath received my prayer.
</p>

<p>
Let all my enemies be ashamed, and be very much
troubled: let them be turned back, and be ashamed
very speedily.
</p>

<p>
Glory be to the Father, etc.
</p>

<pb n='483'/><anchor id='Pg483'/>

<p>
Psalm XXXI.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Beati quorum.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Blessed are they whose iniquities are forgiven,
and whose sins are covered.
</p>

<p>
Blessed is the man to whom the Lord hath not imputed
sin, and in whose spirit there is no guile.
</p>

<p>
Because I was silent my bones grew old, whilst I
cried out all the day long.
</p>

<p>
For day and night Thy hand was heavy upon me:
I am turned in my anguish whilst the thorn is
fastened.
</p>

<p>
I have acknowledged my sin to Thee, and my injustice
I have not concealed.
</p>

<p>
I said I will confess against myself my injustice to
the Lord; and Thou hast forgiven the wickedness of
my sin.
</p>

<p>
For this shall every one that is holy pray to Thee
in a seasonable time.
</p>

<p>
And yet in a flood of many waters, they shall not
come nigh unto Him.
</p>

<p>
Thou art my refuge from the trouble which hath
encompassed me: my joy, deliver me from them
that surround me.
</p>

<p>
I will give thee understanding, and I will instruct
thee in this way in which thou shalt go: I will fix
My eyes upon thee.
</p>

<p>
Do not become like the horse and the mule, which
have no understanding.
</p>

<p>
With bit and bridle bind fast their jaws, who come
not near unto Thee.
</p>

<p>
Many are the scourges of the sinner, but mercy
shall encompass him that hopeth in the Lord.
</p>

<pb n='484'/><anchor id='Pg484'/>

<p>
Be glad in the Lord and rejoice, ye just: and
glory, all ye right of heart.
</p>

<p>
Glory be to the Father, etc.
</p>

<p>
Psalm XXXVII.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Domine ne in furore.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Rebuke me not, O Lord, in Thy indignation;
nor chastise me in Thy wrath.
</p>

<p>
For Thy arrows are fastened in me: and Thy hand
hath been strong upon me.
</p>

<p>
There is no health in my flesh, because of Thy
wrath: there is no peace in my bones, because of
my sins.
</p>

<p>
For my iniquities are gone over my head: and, as
a heavy burden, are become heavy upon me.
</p>

<p>
My sores are putrefied and corrupted, because of
my foolishness.
</p>

<p>
I am become miserable, and am bowed down,
even to the end; I walked sorrowfully all the day
long.
</p>

<p>
For my loins are filled with illusions; and there
is no health in my flesh.
</p>

<p>
I am afflicted and humbled exceedingly: I roared
with the groaning of my heart.
</p>

<p>
Lord, all my desire is before Thee, and my
groaning is not hidden from Thee.
</p>

<p>
My heart is troubled, my strength hath left me,
and the light of my eyes itself is not with me.
</p>

<p>
My friends and my neighbors have drawn near,
and stood against me.
</p>

<p>
And they that were near me stood afar off: and
they that sought my soul used violence.
</p>

<pb n='485'/><anchor id='Pg485'/>

<p>
And they that sought evils to me spoke vain
things, and studied deceits all the day long.
</p>

<p>
But I, as a deaf man, heard not: and as a dumb
man not opening his mouth.
</p>

<p>
And I became as a man that heareth not: and
that hath no reproofs in his mouth.
</p>

<p>
For in Thee, O Lord, have I hoped: Thou wilt
hear me, O Lord, my God.
</p>

<p>
For I said: Lest, at any time, my enemies rejoice
over me; and whilst my feet are moved, they speak
great things against me.
</p>

<p>
For I am ready for scourges: and my sorrow is
continually before me.
</p>

<p>
For I will declare my iniquity: and I will think
for my sin.
</p>

<p>
But my enemies live, and are stronger than I:
and they that hate me wrongfully are multiplied.
</p>

<p>
They that render evil for good have detracted me,
because I followed goodness.
</p>

<p>
Forsake me not, O Lord, my God: do not Thou
depart from me. Attend unto my help, O Lord,
the God of my salvation.
</p>

<p>
Glory be to the Father, etc.
</p>

<p>
Psalm L.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Miserere.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Have mercy on me, O God, according to Thy
great mercy.
</p>

<p>
And according to the multitude of Thy tender
mercies, blot out my iniquity.
</p>

<p>
Wash me yet more from my iniquity, and cleanse
me from my sin.
</p>

<pb n='486'/><anchor id='Pg486'/>

<p>
For I know my iniquity, and my sin is always before
me.
</p>

<p>
To Thee only have I sinned, and have done evil
before Thee: that Thou mayest be justified in Thy
words, and mayest overcome when Thou art judged.
</p>

<p>
For, behold, I was conceived in iniquities; and in
sins did my mother conceive me.
</p>

<p>
For, behold, Thou hast loved truth: the uncertain
and hidden things of Thy wisdom Thou hast made
manifest to me.
</p>

<p>
Thou shalt sprinkle me with hyssop and I shall be
cleansed: Thou shalt wash me, and I shall be whiter
than snow.
</p>

<p>
To my hearing Thou shalt give joy and gladness;
and the bones that have been humbled shall rejoice.
</p>

<p>
Turn away Thy face from my sins, and blot out all
my iniquities.
</p>

<p>
Create a clean heart in me, O God: and renew a
right spirit within my bowels.
</p>

<p>
Cast me not away from Thy face; and take not
Thy Holy Spirit from me.
</p>

<p>
Restore unto me the joy of Thy salvation, and
strengthen me with a perfect spirit.
</p>

<p>
I will teach the unjust Thy ways: and the wicked
shall be converted to Thee.
</p>

<p>
Deliver me from blood, O God, Thou God of my
salvation: and my tongue shall extol Thy justice.
</p>

<p>
O Lord, Thou wilt open my lips: and my mouth
shall declare Thy praise.
</p>

<p>
For if Thou hadst desired sacrifice, I would indeed
have given it: with burnt-offerings Thou wilt not be
delighted.
</p>

<p>
A sacrifice to God is an afflicted spirit: a contrite
and humbled heart, O God, Thou wilt not despise.
</p>

<pb n='487'/><anchor id='Pg487'/>

<p>
Deal favorably, O Lord, in Thy good-will with
Sion: that the walls of Jerusalem may be built up.
</p>

<p>
Then shalt Thou accept the sacrifice of justice,
oblations and whole burnt-offerings: then shall they
lay calves upon Thy altar.
</p>

<p>
Glory be to the Father, etc.
</p>

<p>
Psalm CI.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Domine exaudi.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Hear, O Lord, my prayer: and let my cry come
to Thee.
</p>

<p>
Turn not away Thy face from me: in the day
when I am in trouble incline Thy ear to me.
</p>

<p>
In what day soever I shall call upon Thee, hear
me speedily.
</p>

<p>
For my days are vanished like smoke: and my
bones are grown dry like fuel for the fire.
</p>

<p>
I am smitten as grass, and my heart is withered,
because I forgot to eat my bread.
</p>

<p>
Through the voice of my groaning, my bone hath
cleaved to my flesh.
</p>

<p>
I am become like to a pelican of the wilderness:
I am like a night-raven in the house.
</p>

<p>
I have watched, and become as a sparrow, all alone
on the house-top.
</p>

<p>
All the day long my enemies reproached me: and
they that praised me did swear against me.
</p>

<p>
For I did eat ashes like bread, and mingled my
drink with weeping.
</p>

<p>
Because of Thy anger and indignation: for having
lifted me up, Thou hast thrown me down.
</p>

<p>
My days have declined like a shadow, and I am
withered like grass.
</p>

<pb n='488'/><anchor id='Pg488'/>

<p>
But Thou, O Lord, endurest forever: and Thy
memorial for all generations.
</p>

<p>
Thou shalt arise and have mercy on Sion: for it
is time to have mercy on it, for the time is come.
</p>

<p>
For the stones thereof have pleased Thy servants:
and they shall have pity on the earth thereof.
</p>

<p>
And the Gentiles shall fear Thy name, O Lord,
and all the kings of the earth Thy glory.
</p>

<p>
For the Lord hath built up Sion: and He shall be
seen in His glory.
</p>

<p>
He hath had regard to the prayer of the humble:
and He hath not despised their petition.
</p>

<p>
Let these things be written unto another generation:
and the people that shall be created shall praise
the Lord.
</p>

<p>
Because He has looked forth from His high sanctuary:
from heaven the Lord hath looked upon the
earth.
</p>

<p>
That He might hear the groans of them that are in
fetters: that He might release the children of the
slain.
</p>

<p>
That they might declare the name of the Lord in
Sion, and His praise in Jerusalem.
</p>

<p>
When the people assemble together, and the kings,
to serve the Lord.
</p>

<p>
He answered Him in the way of his strength:
Declare unto me the fewness of my days.
</p>

<p>
Call me not away in the midst of my days: Thy
years are unto generation and generation.
</p>

<p>
In the beginning, O Lord, Thou foundest the
earth; and the heavens are the works of Thy hands.
</p>

<p>
They shall perish, but Thou remainest: and all of
them shall grow old like a garment:
</p>

<p>
And as a vesture Thou shalt change them, and
<pb n='489'/><anchor id='Pg489'/>
they shall be changed. But Thou art always the
self-same, and Thy years shall not fail.
</p>

<p>
The children of Thy servants shall continue: and
their seed shall be directed forever.
</p>

<p>
Glory be to the Father, etc.
</p>

<p>
Psalm CXXIX.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>De profundis.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Out of the depths I have cried to Thee, O Lord:
Lord, hear my voice.
</p>

<p>
Let Thy ears be attentive to the voice of my supplication.
</p>

<p>
If Thou, O Lord, wilt mark iniquities, Lord, who
shall stand?
</p>

<p>
For with Thee there is merciful forgiveness; and
by reason of Thy law I have waited for Thee, O
Lord!
</p>

<p>
My soul hath relied on His word: my soul hath
hoped in the Lord.
</p>

<p>
From the morning watch even until night, let
Israel hope in the Lord.
</p>

<p>
Because with the Lord there is mercy: and with
Him plentiful redemption.
</p>

<p>
And He shall redeem Israel from all his iniquities.
</p>

<p>
Glory be to the Father, etc.
</p>

<p>
Psalm CXLII.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Domine exaudi.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Hear, O Lord, my prayer: give ear to my supplication
in Thy truth: hear me in Thy
justice.
</p>

<pb n='490'/><anchor id='Pg490'/>

<p>
And enter not into judgment with Thy servant:
for in Thy sight no man living shall be justified.
</p>

<p>
For the enemy hath persecuted my soul: he hath
brought down my life to the earth.
</p>

<p>
He hath made me to dwell in the darkness as
those that have been dead of old: and my spirit is
in anguish within me: my heart within me is
troubled.
</p>

<p>
I remembered the days of old, I meditated on all
Thy works: I meditated upon the works of Thy
hands.
</p>

<p>
I stretched forth my hands to Thee: my soul is as
earth without water unto Thee.
</p>

<p>
Hear me speedily, O Lord: my spirit hath fainted
away.
</p>

<p>
Turn not away Thy face from me, lest I be like
unto them that go down into the pit.
</p>

<p>
Cause me to hear Thy mercy in the morning: for
in Thee have I hoped.
</p>

<p>
Make the way known to me, wherein I should walk:
for I have lifted up my soul to Thee.
</p>

<p>
Deliver me from my enemies, O Lord; to Thee
have I fled: teach me to do Thy will, for Thou art
my God.
</p>

<p>
Thy good Spirit shall lead me into the right land:
and for Thy name's sake, O Lord, Thou wilt quicken
me in Thy justice.
</p>

<p>
Thou wilt bring my soul out of trouble: and in
Thy mercy Thou wilt destroy my enemies.
</p>

<p>
And Thou wilt cut off all them that afflict my soul:
for I am Thy servant.
</p>

<p>
Glory be to the Father, etc.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Ant.</hi> Remember not, O Lord, our offences, nor
those of our parents, and take not revenge of our sins.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='491'/><anchor id='Pg491'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Efficacious Prayers for the Souls in Purgatory.</head>

<p>
A Daily Exercise For The Relief Of The Poor
Souls.
</p>

<p>
O most loving God, Father of mercies, God of
infinite goodness, behold me humbly prostrate
before Thy throne; I pray and beseech Thee
to have pity on the holy souls that are in the pains
of purgatory. Cast on them a look of mercy, free
them from their pains, and put them in possession of
the inheritance of heaven. Remember that they are
the work of Thy hands, redeemed by the most
precious blood of Thy divine Son Jesus: deal with
them according to Thine infinite mercy. Hear, O
Lord, the prayer I make to Thee with all confidence,
through the merits of the Passion and death of Thy
most dear Son Jesus, that they may be consoled, and
may enjoy without delay that immortal glory which
Thou hast prepared for Thine elect. O merciful
Lord, have pity upon them, according to our trust
in Thee. Amen.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Prayers.</hi>
</p>

<p>
1. O most sweet Jesus, through the sweat of
blood which Thou didst suffer in the
Garden of Gethsemani, have pity upon the holy
souls in purgatory, and in particular upon the one
which was most devout to the most Holy Trinity.
</p>

<p>
Have pity upon them, O Jesus, have pity upon
them.
</p>

<pb n='492'/><anchor id='Pg492'/>

<p>
Our Father, Hail Mary, and Eternal rest, etc.
</p>

<lg>
<l>O turn to Jesus, Mother! turn,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And call Him by His tenderest names;</l>
<l>Pray for the holy souls that burn</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>This hour amid the cleansing flames.</l>
</lg>

<p>
2. O most sweet Jesus, through the torments
which Thou didst suffer in Thy most cruel scourging,
have pity upon those dear souls, and particularly
upon the one which was the most devout to
Thy most amiable Heart.
</p>

<p>
Have pity upon them, O Jesus, have pity upon
them.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, Hail Mary, and Eternal rest, etc.
</p>

<p>
O turn to Jesus, etc.
</p>

<p>
3. O most sweet Jesus, through the pangs which
Thou didst suffer in Thy most painful crowning with
thorns, have pity upon those dear souls, and particularly
upon the one which was most devout to the
immaculate heart of Mary.
</p>

<p>
Have pity upon them, O Jesus, have pity upon
them.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, Hail Mary, and Eternal rest, etc.
</p>

<p>
O turn to Jesus, etc.
</p>

<p>
4. O most sweet Jesus, through the afflictions
which Thou didst suffer in carrying the cross to
Calvary, have pity upon those dear souls, and particularly
upon the one which is nearest to its departure
from that most painful prison.
</p>

<p>
Have pity upon them, O Jesus, have pity upon
them.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, Hail Mary, and Eternal rest, etc.
</p>

<p>
O turn to Jesus, etc.
</p>

<p>
5. O most sweet Jesus, through the tortures which
Thou didst suffer in Thy most cruel crucifixion, have
<pb n='493'/><anchor id='Pg493'/>
pity upon those dear souls, and especially upon that
one which Thou knowest to be of them all the most
destitute of special suffrages.
</p>

<p>
Have pity upon them, O Jesus, have pity upon
them.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, Hail Mary, and Eternal rest, etc.
</p>

<p>
O turn to Jesus, etc.
</p>

<p>
6. O most sweet Jesus, through the pains which
Thou didst suffer in the most bitter agony which
Thou didst undergo upon the cross, have pity upon
those dear souls, and particularly upon the one which
among them all would be the last to depart out of
such excruciating pains.
</p>

<p>
Have pity upon them, O Jesus, have pity upon
them.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, Hail Mary, and Eternal rest, etc.
</p>

<p>
O turn to Jesus, etc.
</p>

<p>
7. O most sweet Jesus, through that intense
anguish which Thou didst suffer, when Thou didst
breathe out Thy blessed soul, have pity upon those
dear souls, and particularly upon the one which has
the greatest claims on me for help.
</p>

<p>
Have pity upon them, O Jesus, have pity upon
them.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, Hail Mary, and Eternal rest, etc.
</p>

<lg>
<l>O Mary, let thy Son no more</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>His lingering spouses thus expect:</l>
<l>God's children to their God restore,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And to the Spirit His elect.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>They are the children of thy tears;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Then hasten, Mother, to their aid;</l>
<l>In pity think each hour appears</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>An age while glory is delayed.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='494'/><anchor id='Pg494'/>

<lg>
<l>Pray, then, as thou hast ever prayed;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Angels and souls, all look to thee;</l>
<l>God waits thy prayers, for He hath made</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Those prayers His law of charity.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>O turn to Jesus, Mother! turn,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And call Him by His tenderest names;</l>
<l>Pray for the holy souls that burn</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>This hour amid the cleansing flames.</l>
</lg>

<p>
Supplication To The Most Holy Mary.
</p>

<p>
To thee, O most holy Virgin Mary, my Mother, I
turn in supplication, and through that sword
which pierced thy heart, when thou didst behold thy
beloved Son Jesus Christ bow down His head and
give up the ghost, I pray and implore thee, with the
greatest confidence, to succor the poor holy souls in
purgatory, and particularly those of which an especial
commemoration has been made. O Mother of
sorrows, O Queen of martyrs, for the love of Jesus
Who died for us upon the cross, do thou with thy
powerful prayers give succor also unto us, who are in
danger not only of falling into purgatory, but even of
losing ourselves forever. O Mary, our dear Mother,
Mother of grace, Mother of mercy, have pity upon us.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Ejaculation to be repeated every day during the Octave.</hi>
</p>

<p>
O eternal Father, through the most precious blood
of Jesus, and through the most bitter dolors of
Mary, have pity and mercy upon the holy souls in
purgatory. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Prayers for Each Day for the Souls in Purgatory.</head>

<p>
For Sunday.
</p>

<p>
O Lord God almighty, I pray Thee, by the precious
blood which Thy divine Son Jesus shed
<pb n='495'/><anchor id='Pg495'/>
in the Garden; set free the souls in purgatory, and,
among them all, especially the one which is most
friendless, and conduct it to Thy glory, where it may
praise Thee and bless Thee for eternity. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, Hail Mary.
</p>

<p>
Psalm, <hi rend='italic'>De Profundis</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Prayer.</hi>
</p>

<p>
O God, the Creator and Redeemer of all the faithful,
grant to the souls of Thy servants departed
the remission of all their sins, that through pious
supplications they may obtain that pardon which they
have always desired; Who livest and reignest with
God the Father in the unity of the Holy Ghost, God,
world without end. Amen.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Eternal rest give to them, O Lord.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And let perpetual light shine upon them.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> May they rest in peace.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.
</p>

<p>
Monday.
</p>

<p>
O Lord God almighty, I pray Thee, through the
precious blood which Thy divine Son Jesus
shed in His cruel scourging; set free the souls in purgatory,
and, among them all, especially the one which
is nearest to its entry into Thy glory, in order that it
may speedily begin to praise Thee and to bless Thee
for eternity. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, Hail Mary.
</p>

<p>
Psalm, <hi rend='italic'>De Profundis</hi>.
</p>

<p>
O God, the Creator, etc., etc.
</p>

<p>
Tuesday.
</p>

<p>
O Lord God almighty, I supplicate Thee, through
the precious blood which Thy divine Son
<pb n='496'/><anchor id='Pg496'/>
Jesus shed in His bitter crowning with thorns; set
free the souls in purgatory, and in particular, among
them all, the one which would have to be the last to
depart from such grievous pains, to the end that it
may not delay so long to praise Thee in Thy glory,
and to bless Thee forever. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, Hail Mary.
</p>

<p>
Psalm, <hi rend='italic'>De Profundis</hi>.
</p>

<p>
O God, the Creator, etc., etc.
</p>

<p>
Wednesday.
</p>

<p>
O Lord God almighty, I pray Thee, through the
precious blood which Thy divine Son Jesus
shed through the streets of Jerusalem, in carrying the
cross on His sacred shoulders; set free the souls in
purgatory, and especially the one which is the richest
in merits before Thee, in order that in the sublime
height of glory which it expects, it may loudly praise
Thee and bless Thee forever. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, Hail Mary.
</p>

<p>
Psalm, <hi rend='italic'>De Profundis</hi>.
</p>

<p>
O God, the Creator, etc., etc.
</p>

<p>
Thursday.
</p>

<p>
O Lord God almighty, I supplicate Thee, through
the precious body and blood of Thy divine
Son Jesus, which He Himself on the eve of His Passion
gave erewhile for meat and drink to His dear
apostles, and left to all His Church as a perpetual
sacrifice and lifegiving food for His faithful; set free
the souls in purgatory, and most of all the one most
devout to this mystery of infinite love; in order that
<pb n='497'/><anchor id='Pg497'/>
it may praise Thee for it with Thy divine Son, and
with the Holy Ghost in Thy glory forever. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, Hail Mary.
</p>

<p>
Psalm, <hi rend='italic'>De Profundis</hi>.
</p>

<p>
O God, the Creator, etc., etc.
</p>

<p>
Friday.
</p>

<p>
O Lord God almighty, I pray Thee, through the
precious blood which Thy divine Son Jesus
shed on this day on the altar of the cross, especially
from His most holy hands and feet; set free the souls
in purgatory, and especially the one for which I
ought most to pray to Thee; in order that it may not
be owing to my fault that Thou dost not quickly take
it to praise Thee in Thy glory, and to bless Thee forever.
Amen.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, Hail Mary.
</p>

<p>
Psalm, <hi rend='italic'>De Profundis</hi>.
</p>

<p>
O God, the Creator, etc., etc.
</p>

<p>
Saturday.
</p>

<p>
O Lord God almighty, I supplicate Thee, through
the precious blood which poured forth from
the side of Thy divine Son Jesus, in the sight and to
the exceeding suffering of His most holy Mother;
set free the souls in purgatory, and especially, among
them all, the one which was most devout to this great
Queen; in order that it may speedily come to Thy
glory to praise Thee in her, and her in Thee for all
eternity. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, Hail Mary.
</p>

<p>
Psalm, <hi rend='italic'>De Profundis</hi>.
</p>

<p>
O God, the Creator, etc., etc.
</p>

<p>
Indulgence of a hundred days each time; applicable to the
dead.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='498'/><anchor id='Pg498'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>An Invocation of the Most Holy Trinity for the
Souls in Purgatory.</head>

<p>
O God of all goodness, Father of mercies, Who,
at the prayers and fastings of Thy faithful
people, didst vouchsafe to send Thy angels to break
asunder the fetters of Thy holy apostle Peter, and to
open the doors of his prison; hear even also on this
day the prayers and supplications of Thy Church,
and send Thy angel to the souls for whom we pray,
that, the doors of their prison being opened wide,
they may be happily received into the bosom of Thy
mercy.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, Hail Mary, Glory be to the Father,
etc., etc.
</p>

<p>
O Son of God, Saviour of souls, Who didst refresh
the three children in the burning fiery furnace, pour
down upon the souls that cry to Thee from the flames,
Thy heavenly dew. Thy precious blood alone can
quench the flames of purgatory; oh, let it now flow
down upon these suffering souls, and do Thou, O
Lord, have mercy upon them.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, Hail Mary, Glory be to the Father,
etc., etc.
</p>

<p>
O Spirit of love, have compassion on the cruel
torment which these souls endure, that are filled
with the purest charity, and, aspiring without ceasing
towards their God, cry aloud in their distress,
<q>I thirst: I thirst after my God!</q> and yet cannot
attain unto the object of their love, nor receive the
least drop of that torrent of pure delights. O Holy
Spirit, grant that, having felt the fiercest pangs of
love, they may taste its heavenly delights in a blessed
eternity. Amen.
</p>

<pb n='499'/><anchor id='Pg499'/>

<p>
Our Father, Hail Mary, Glory be to the Father,
etc., etc.
</p>

<p>
Prayer that may be used by Surviving Friends.
</p>

<p>
Grant, O Lord, we beseech Thee, that while we
lament the departure of Thy servant, we may
always remember that we are most certainly to follow
him [her]. Give us grace to prepare for that last
hour by a good and holy life, that we may not be
taken unprepared by sudden death, but may be ever
on the watch, that, when Thou shalt call, we may go
forth to meet the Bridegroom, and enter with Him
into glory everlasting. Through the same Jesus
Christ Our Lord. Amen.
</p>

<p>
O most wise and merciful Lord, Who hast ordained
this life as a passage to the future, confining our repentance
to the time of our pilgrimage here, and
reserving for hereafter the state of punishment and
reward; vouchsafe to us who are yet alive, and have
still the opportunity of reconciliation with Thee, the
grace so to watch over all our actions, and to correct
every slightest wandering from the true way to
heaven, that we may not be surprised with our sins
uncancelled or our duties unfulfilled; but when our
bodies shall go down into the grave, our souls may
ascend to Thee, and dwell with Thee forever in the
mansions of eternal bliss. Through Jesus Christ Our
Lord and only Saviour. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Litany of the Faithful Departed.</head>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>For Private Devotion Only.</hi>)
</p>

<lg>
<l>Lord, have mercy on us.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Christ, have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<pb n='500'/><anchor id='Pg500'/>
<l>Lord, have mercy on us.</l>
<l>Christ, hear us.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Christ, graciously hear us.</hi></l>
<l>God the Father of heaven, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on the suffering souls.</hi></l>
<l>God the Son, Redeemer of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on the suffering souls.</hi></l>
<l>God the Holy Ghost, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on the suffering souls.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Trinity, one God, <hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on the suffering souls.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Mary, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for the suffering souls.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Mother of God, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for the suffering souls.</hi></l>
<l>Holy Virgin of virgins, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for the suffering souls.</hi></l>
<l>St. Michael, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for the suffering souls.</hi></l>
<l>All ye holy angels and archangels, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for the suffering souls.</hi></l>
<l>All ye choirs of celestial spirits, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for the suffering souls.</hi></l>
<l>St. John the Baptist, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for the suffering souls.</hi></l>
<l>St. Joseph, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for the suffering souls.</hi></l>
<l>All ye holy patriarchs and prophets, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for the suffering souls.</hi></l>
<l>St. Peter, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for the suffering souls.</hi></l>
<l>St. Paul, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for the suffering souls.</hi></l>
<l>St. John, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for the suffering souls.</hi></l>
<l>All ye holy apostles and evangelists, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for the suffering souls.</hi></l>
<l>St. Stephen, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for the suffering souls.</hi></l>
<l>St. Laurence, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for the suffering souls.</hi></l>
<l>All ye holy martyrs, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for the suffering souls.</hi></l>
<l>St. Gregory, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for the suffering souls.</hi></l>
<l>St. Ambrose, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for the suffering souls.</hi></l>
<l>St. Augustine, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for the suffering souls.</hi></l>
<l>St. Jerome, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for the suffering souls.</hi></l>
<l>All ye holy pontiffs and confessors, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for the suffering souls.</hi></l>
<l>All ye holy doctors, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for the suffering souls.</hi></l>
<l>All ye holy priests and Levites, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for the suffering souls.</hi></l>
<l>All ye holy monks and hermits, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for the suffering souls.</hi></l>
<l>St. Mary Magdalen, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for the suffering souls.</hi></l>
<l>St. Catharine, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for the suffering souls.</hi></l>
<l>St. Barbara, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for the suffering souls.</hi></l>
<l>All ye holy virgins and widows, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for the suffering souls.</hi></l>
<l>All ye saints of God, <hi rend='italic'>Pray for the suffering souls.</hi></l>
<l>Be merciful unto them,</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Pardon them, O Lord.</hi></l>
<l>Be merciful unto them,</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Hear us, O Lord.</hi></l>
<l>From all evil, O <hi rend='italic'>Lord, deliver them.</hi></l>
<pb n='501'/><anchor id='Pg501'/>
<l>From Thy wrath, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver them.</hi></l>
<l>From the rigor of Thy justice, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver them.</hi></l>
<l>From the gnawing worm of conscience, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver them.</hi></l>
<l>From fearful darkness, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver them.</hi></l>
<l>From their mourning and tears, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver them.</hi></l>
<l>By Thy incarnation, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver them.</hi></l>
<l>By Thy nativity, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver them.</hi></l>
<l>By Thine own sweet name, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver them.</hi></l>
<l>By Thy baptism and holy fasting, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver them.</hi></l>
<l>By Thy most profound humility, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver them.</hi></l>
<l>By Thy perfect submission, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver them.</hi></l>
<l>By Thy infinite love, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver them.</hi></l>
<l>By Thy anguish and torment, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver them.</hi></l>
<l>By Thy bloody sweat, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver them.</hi></l>
<l>By Thy bonds and chains, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver them.</hi></l>
<l>By Thy crown of thorns, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver them.</hi></l>
<l>By Thy ignominious death, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver them.</hi></l>
<l>By Thy sacred wounds, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver them.</hi></l>
<l>By Thy cross and bitter Passion, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver them.</hi></l>
<l>By Thy glorious resurrection, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver them.</hi></l>
<l>By Thine admirable ascension, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver them.</hi></l>
<l>By the coming of the Paraclete, <hi rend='italic'>O Lord, deliver them.</hi></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>In the day of judgment, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>Sinners as we are, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>Thou Who didst absolve the adulteress, and pardon the
good thief, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>Thou Who savest by Thy grace, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>Thou Who hast the keys of death and of hell, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That it may please Thee to deliver our parents, friends, and
benefactors from tormenting flames, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That it may please Thee to deliver all the faithful departed, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That it may please Thee to have mercy on all those who have
none in this world to remember or pray for them, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That it may please Thee to have mercy on all, and to deliver
them from their pains, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That it may please Thee to fulfil their desires, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>That it may please Thee to admit them amongst Thine elect, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>King of dreadful majesty, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>Son of God, <hi rend='italic'>We beseech Thee, hear us.</hi></l>
<l>Lamb of God, Who takest away the sins of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Give them rest!</hi></l>
<pb n='502'/><anchor id='Pg502'/>
<l>Lamb of God, Who takest away the sins of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Give them rest!</hi></l>
<l>Lamb of God, Who takest away the sins of the world, <hi rend='italic'>Give them eternal rest!</hi></l>
<l>Jesus Christ, hear us.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Jesus Christ, graciously hear us.</hi></l>
</lg>

<p>
Our Father, etc.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> From the gate of hell.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> O Lord, preserve their souls.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Let Us Pray.</hi>
</p>

<p>
O God, the Creator and Redeemer of all the faithful, give to
the souls of Thy servants departed the remission of all
their sins, to the end that they may obtain, by the humble supplications
of Thy Church, that pardon which they have always
desired of Thy mercy. Thou Who, being God, livest and
reignest forever and ever. Amen.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Give them, O Lord, eternal rest.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And let perpetual light shine upon them.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> May they rest in peace.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Psalm CXXIX.</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>De Profundis.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Out of the depths I have cried unto Thee, O
Lord: Lord, hear my voice.
</p>

<p>
Let Thy ears be attentive to the voice of my
supplication.
</p>

<p>
If Thou, O Lord, wilt mark iniquities: Lord, who
shall stand?
</p>

<p>
For with Thee there is merciful forgiveness: and
by reason of Thy law I have waited for Thee, O
Lord.
</p>

<p>
My soul hath relied on His word: my soul hath
hoped in the Lord.
</p>

<pb n='503'/><anchor id='Pg503'/>

<p>
From the morning watch even until night: let
Israel hope in the Lord.
</p>

<p>
For with the Lord there is mercy: and with Him
plentiful redemption.
</p>

<p>
And He shall redeem Israel from all his iniquities.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Eternal rest give unto them, O Lord.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And let perpetual light shine upon them.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> May they rest in peace.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.
</p>

<p>
An indulgence of fifty days can be gained thrice in the same
day by all the faithful who shall devoutly recite the <hi rend='italic'>De Profundis</hi>,
with the versicles and responses. Plenary indulgence
once a year, after confession and communion.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='504'/><anchor id='Pg504'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>December. Advent.</head>

<p>
Christ Jesus, Whom we are going to seek this month,
has two thrones: one of grace and one of justice. While
we live we can always approach the throne of grace. This
throne is placed for our refuge, and the pardon of our sins. Ask
and you shall receive; if your sins are as black as jet, they shall
be made white as snow.
</p>

<p>
When we approach the throne of God's mercy, love and grace,
we must come deeply penetrated with the knowledge, <q>Without
Me you can do nothing.</q>&mdash;John xv. 5. We have not the
grace, nor the strength, nor the willingness, nor the intelligence
to do good of ourselves without the help of Jesus. Let us then
go with confidence to the throne of grace, that we may obtain
mercy and find grace.
</p>

<p>
Let us have great confidence in God's mercy; let us feel, in
the depths of our hearts, a conviction that the only source whence
a poor sinner can expect effectual help is from God's love.
<q>Although He should kill me I will trust in Him.</q> We need
aid, and we will get that help without fail.
</p>

<p>
The Church shows her wisdom by not showing us the manger
during Advent; for one entire month she tells us, <q>Prepare
yourselves that you may be fit to approach the Infant Jesus at the
time of His birth. You must prepare your heart by meditation,
by a lively faith, a fervent love, a true humility, a sweetness of
character, and a spirit of penance and recollection.</q> On Christmas
day the Lord is not born corporally, as He was at Bethlehem;
but He will be born spiritually in our hearts, if they have been
well prepared for His reception.
</p>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Considerations and Prayers for Every Day.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>First Day.</head>

<p>
Advent is the season in which we are taught to
look forward to the coming of Our Lord into
<pb n='505'/><anchor id='Pg505'/>
the world at Christmas, and also to His second coming
at the end of time, to judge the living and the
dead. His first coming was to seek and to save that
which was lost; the second will be to gather in the
fruits of His labors, the souls that are saved. The
sacred time of Advent is therefore a preparation
for Christmas, established by the Church, and at the
same time it leads us to look for the coming of Christ
at the end, and to conform our lives to the life of
Christ, so that when we meet Him on the Last Day
it will not be in fear and trembling, but with joy,
because we have been selected to return with Him to
heaven. We will, then, with alacrity enter into this
employment during this month, knowing that if we
have prepared well for His first coming, we shall be
in a fit state to receive Him at His second advent.
The time of Advent, according to the Church, is a
time of penance, not so great as Lent, but the spirit
should be the same. Every morning, if possible,
attend Mass in honor of the coming of Christ, and on
Fridays impose a slight penance on yourself.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Lord Jesus, Who didst, for the love of us,
vouchsafe to reduce Thy incarnated divinity
and most divine humanity to the humiliating state of
birth and infancy: grant that we, acknowledging
Thy infinite wisdom in Thy infancy, Thy power in
Thy weakness, and Thy majesty in Thy littleness,
may adore Thee, a little one on earth, and behold
Thee great in heaven. Who livest and reignest with
God the Father, in unity with the Holy Ghost, world
without end. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='506'/><anchor id='Pg506'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Second Day.</head>

<p>
Of all the miracles in the world, never was there
one to be compared to that of the coming of
the Son of God on earth, in the humble form of a
child. It was a miracle so entirely above our reasoning,
that unless we knew it by faith established by
revelation, we would say it was impossible and believe
it as little as many of the unbelieving Jews
did. That the infinite God should take the form of
a poor creature: that God should so unite Himself
to that creature of His, as to assume its lowliness,
clad in the dust and clay of the earth, is a very great
miracle. It was, however, the infinite power of the
Almighty that did this. <q>For us men, and for our
salvation, He came down from heaven. He humbled
Himself, and became obedient unto death, even
to the death of the cross.</q> Who can now refuse to
believe in the love of God for His creatures? Men
looking at life in a certain light, have doubted God's
goodness to humanity; but let them once contemplate
the world from our point of view and they will
necessarily admit that He loved us to excess, and
that He still continues to love us. Oh, shall we not
then return Him love for love?
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Lord Jesus, Who didst, for the love of us, etc.,
etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Third Day.</head>

<p>
What was it that induced God to work such a
miracle in behalf of mankind, as to send His
only-begotten Son to this world? It was man's sin.
<pb n='507'/><anchor id='Pg507'/>
From all eternity the Blessed Trinity had decreed
that in consequence of sin there was a necessity of
redemption; that the eternal Word should be born
into the world, if man was not to be left to the fate
of everlasting perdition. Man could not redeem
himself; an angel could not give sufficient satisfaction;
none but God Himself could offer atonement
for man. Hence, God, in His great goodness and
mercy, resolved to do this work of redemption. He
provides a remedy for all the sins and follies of men,
even before they are committed. We do the harm,
and God has to undo it. Has He not often thus
averted from me the consequences due to my evil
deeds? What have I done in my life but wickedness,
and very little good? My life has been so
filled with iniquity, that shame fills my heart when I
think of the past. I have not only to bear the sins
of Adam and Eve, but I have to atone for my own
sins. So great have these sins been, that the Son of
God had to descend very low to reach our level.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Lord Jesus, Who didst, for the love of us, etc.,
etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fourth Day.</head>

<p>
The Fathers of the Church, and the Church herself,
exclaim, <q>O happy fault, that caused the
Word to be made flesh, and to dwell among us! O
happy transgression, which earned a Redeemer such
as this!</q> We gained more than we lost. Adam
and Eve were perfect for a time in the sight of God,
but when they fell, they lost all. Then came the redemption,
and we were admitted into the Church of
<pb n='508'/><anchor id='Pg508'/>
God, a fountain so full of graces, by means of the
sacraments. Our places were secured in heaven by
the blood of the Lamb. What a great gift was that
blood of Jesus Christ, poured over our soul! What
a glorious wound was that which was cured by so
adorable a power! We have hope once more, again
we breathe freely in the bright trust of being children
of God, and heirs of the kingdom of heaven.
So that from the time of Adam and Eve, there had
been a hope in the human breast that God would
come to redeem mankind. Adam and all his children
were ever looking and praying for His coming;
and now during Advent we are preparing for the coming
of Him Who is to rejoice every heart. <q>Come
quickly, O Lord Jesus.</q>
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Lord Jesus, Who didst, for the love of us, etc.,
etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fifth Day.</head>

<p>
The children of Adam had to lament the deadly
effects of the evil they had committed. As
generation followed generation, thicker grew the
darkness in the minds and hearts of the people, and
farther and farther away did they wander from that
eternal Light, which was to guide them to heaven.
Thus it is that sin goes on, spreading its painful consequences
throughout the world, even long after the
evil-doer is dead and gone. Gradually the world
lost all regard for virtue, or for God, until it became
so wicked that unless the Redeemer appeared when
He did, mankind would have been plunged into absolute
barbarism, and worked its own destruction. If
<pb n='509'/><anchor id='Pg509'/>
I had lived then, what kind of a human being would
I have been?&mdash;who even now, while enjoying the
light of civilization and the freedom with which God
has enriched me, am such a poor specimen of a Christian.
I who have been made by God, for God, and
in the image of God.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Lord Jesus, Who didst, for the love of us, etc.,
etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Sixth Day.</head>

<p>
Our life is a circle. We came from God, and to
God we must return. If we have deserted
Him we must go back, if our life is to be a success in
the end. We can never find repose or lasting satisfaction
in anything but God. Until we make Him
the end and aim of our life, we shall feel that we are
wandering about in the dark. This was the case with
the world, which had gone from its Creator; deeper
and deeper it sank in the mire of iniquity. We must
do as Christ bids us, <q>Seek ye first the kingdom of
God.</q> We seek Him by a thorough preparation for
His coming, for He will come to meet us, and will
be ready to receive us and take us back into His
affection. God comes to us repeatedly in life;
but we do not know His fulness. Yet it is a sad loss
that we are so blind. It is the only real misery in
life, that we are meeting God every day, and do not
know Him when we meet Him.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Lord Jesus, Who didst, for the love of us, etc.,
etc.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='510'/><anchor id='Pg510'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Seventh Day.</head>

<p>
At length, on the distant horizon, can be discerned
the dawn of the Sun that has been so
long desired to enlighten the world. The happy
Mother of the Messias was to be born before He could
come. This is the eve of the feast of the Immaculate
Conception; the earth has now a pledge that the coming
of the Messias will no longer be delayed, the Son
of man is near at hand. The conception of Mary
takes place under the direct providence of God; she
receives the breath of life from God, without any stain
of sin. The feast of the Blessed Virgin's Immaculate
Conception is the most solemn of all those which the
Church celebrates during the holy season of Advent.
We will, then, honor the feast of the Blessed Virgin
with joy. The intention of the feast is not only to
celebrate the anniversary of the happy moment in
which began, in the womb of the pious Ann, the life
of the ever glorious Virgin Mary: but also to honor
the sublime privilege by which Mary was preserved
from the stain of original sin&mdash;which, by the curse of
God on our first parents, darkened the souls of all the
descendants of Adam and Eve at the very first
moment of their conception.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Lord Jesus, Who didst, for the love of us, etc.,
etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Eighth Day.</head>

<p>
The faith of the Catholic Church on the conception
of Mary, is this: that, at the very instant
when God united the soul of Mary, which He had
<pb n='511'/><anchor id='Pg511'/>
created with a special regard to the Mother of His
divine Son, to the body which it was to animate, this
ever blessed soul not only did not contract the stain
of that curse which defiles every human soul, but was
filled with an immeasurable grace, which rendered it
from that moment the mirror of sanctity of God Himself,
as far as this is possible to a creature. It was
due to His own infinite sanctity that God should
suspend, in this instance, the law which His divine
justice had passed upon all the children of Adam.
The relations which Mary was to bear to the divinity
could not be reconciled with her undergoing the
humiliations of man's punishment. She was not only
the Daughter of the eternal Father: she was destined
also to become the very Mother of the Son, and the
Bride of the Holy Ghost. Nothing defiled could be
permitted to enter, even for the shortest time, that
sacred structure.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Lord Jesus, Who didst, for the love of us, etc.,
etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Ninth Day.</head>

<p>
St. Anselm, a Doctor of the Church, tells us,
in his time, when the doctrine of the Immaculate
Conception had not yet been declared, that,
<q>It was just that this holy Virgin should be adorned
with the greatest purity which can be conceived,
after that of God Himself, since God the Father was
to give her as her Child that only-begotten Son,
Whom He loved as Himself, as being begotten to
Him from His own bosom, and this in such a manner
that the self-same Son of God was by nature the Son
<pb n='512'/><anchor id='Pg512'/>
of both God the Father, and of this Blessed Virgin.
This same Son chose her to be substantially His
Mother: and the Holy Ghost willed that in her womb
He would operate the conception and birth of Him
from Whom He Himself proceeded.</q> When we
remember that Mary is the <q>Mother of God,</q> so far
from being surprised at the privileges which we see
the Church giving her, we approve of all. That the
Almighty would shower down upon her the choicest
graces of heaven, and by special privileges distinguish
her from all the children of God, seems only just.
Mary was so surrounded and strengthened by grace
that she never committed the least sin during her
life.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Lord Jesus, Who didst, for the love of us, etc.,
etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Tenth Day.</head>

<p>
The closeness of the tie between Mother and Son
gave Mary all the privileges and distinctions
which she enjoys. This closeness was to unite the
Son of God with Mary, and was to elicit from Him
the most tender love and the most filial reverence.
All this had been present to the thought of God
from all eternity, and the conclusion forces itself
upon our mind, that therefore the divine Word had,
for His future Mother, a love infinitely greater than
that which He bore for all other creatures. Mary's
honor was infinitely dear to Him, because she was
to be His Mother, chosen to be so by His eternal
and merciful decrees. The Son's love protected the
Mother. She, indeed, in her sublime humility, willingly
submitted to whatever the rest of God's creatures
<pb n='513'/><anchor id='Pg513'/>
had brought on themselves, and obeyed
every tittle of those laws which were never meant for
her. <q>O Mary, O marvellous, mystical creature!
O resplendent mote, lost almost to view in the upper
light of the supernal fountains! Who can sufficiently
abase himself before thee, and weep for the want of
love to love thee rightly, thou whom the Word so
loved eternally?</q> (Faber.)
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Lord Jesus, Who didst, for the love of us, etc.,
etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Eleventh Day.</head>

<p>
Mary was conceived without sin, because the
eternal Father would not do less for the
second Eve than He had done for the first; yet the
latter was created, as was also the first Adam, in the
state of original justice, which she forfeited by her
disobedience. The Son of God would not permit
that Mary, from whom He was to take the nature of
man, should be deprived of that gift which He had
given to Eve. The Holy Ghost, Who was to overshadow
Mary, and through whose operation she was
to become the Mother of the Incarnate Word, would
not permit that foul stain of sin in which we are
all conceived to rest even for an instant on His
Bride. All men were to contract the sin of Adam.
The sentence was universal, the condemnation went
out against all the race; but God's own Mother
could not be included. God, Who is the Author of
that law; God, Who was free to make it as He
willed, had power to save her from its effects; His
omnipotence could exempt her, and it was nothing
<pb n='514'/><anchor id='Pg514'/>
more than proper, even according to our frail reason,
that she was exempted.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Lord Jesus, Who didst, for the love of us, etc.,
etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twelfth Day.</head>

<p>
Certainly God's omnipotence came into active
operation when He created the soul of Mary.
When Adam and Eve stood before Him in the garden
of paradise, the Lord said to the woman, <q>Why
hast thou done this?</q> She replied, <q>The serpent
deceived me, and I did eat.</q> Then God was
angry, and turning to the serpent He said, <q>I will
put enmity between thy seed and her seed; she
shall crush thy head.</q> Thus was salvation promised
to the human race, under the form of a victory
over Satan, and it is to be gained by the woman.
The second Eve is to be worthy of the second
Adam, conquering Satan and sin. The human race
is one day to be avenged, not only by God made
man, but also by the woman miraculously exempted
from every sin, in whom the primeval creation,
which was in justice and holiness, will thus reappear,
as though original sin had never been committed.
Raise up your hands then, ye children of
Adam, and shake off your chains. On this day of
the Immaculate Conception the humiliation which
weighed you down so heavily is annihilated.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Lord Jesus, Who didst, for the love of us,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='515'/><anchor id='Pg515'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Thirteenth Day.</head>

<p>
The dignity of the human race is well portrayed
when we see that God so blessed its members.
The Lord loves the human race, and was
pleased to be called the Son of man. He still loves
this guilty earth, since He has deigned to enlighten
it with one of the brightest rays of His Mother's
glory. How the world ought to exult on this feast
of the Immaculate Conception! The present generation
will never forget the enthusiasm with which
the entire universe received the tidings of the definition
of the dogma. It was an event of mysterious
importance, which thus marks this second half of
our century, and we shall look forward to the future
with confidence. For the Holy Ghost bids us
tremble for the days when truths are diminished
among the children of men. He would consequently
have us look on these times as blessed by
God, in which we receive an increase of truth,
and an increase both in light and authority. The
Church always professed belief in the Immaculate
Conception; it is not a new doctrine. She had
always kept the 8th of December as the feast of the
conception of Mary. Now we add, <q>Immaculate</q>
Conception.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Lord Jesus, Who didst, for the love of us,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fourteenth Day.</head>

<p>
There have been no new doctrines added to the
dogmas of the Church. People are sometimes
scandalized when they hear, from Protestant and infidel
<pb n='516'/><anchor id='Pg516'/>
sources, that the Church is continually adding to
her faith without any warrant from God. Such, however,
is not a fact. The present living Church can add
nothing to the revelation of Our Lord and Saviour,
Jesus Christ. St. Bernard and the Angelic Doctor,
St. Thomas, both teach that the Church cannot
celebrate the feast of what is not holy. From time
immemorial the feast of the Immaculate Conception
has been celebrated; it was considered holy then,
and is now no new doctrine. The nativity of the
same holy Virgin is kept as a solemnity in the
Church, because Mary was born full of grace. Therefore,
had the first moment of Mary's existence been
one of sin, as that of all the other children of Adam,
it never could have been made the subject of reverence
by the Church. O Mary, thou bright ray of
hope, penetrate our hearts, that we may rejoice in
thy motherhood; thou art the dearest, purest, holiest
Mother, whom we love most tenderly.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Lord Jesus, Who didst, for the love of us, etc.,
etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fifteenth Day.</head>

<p>
How thy gentle light gladdens our weary eyes,
sweet Mother! Generations had followed generations
on this earth of ours; men looked up to heaven
through their tears, hoping to see on the horizon the
Star which they had been told should disperse the
gloomy horrors of the world's darkness. O thou fair
Morning Star, which dost shed thy blessed rays on
the sea, and dost bring calm after long stormy night,
prepare our eyes, that they may behold the divine
<pb n='517'/><anchor id='Pg517'/>
Sun which will soon follow in thy path, and give to
the world His reign of light. To see Jesus in truth
our hearts must be pure; purify them, then, O
Mother, especially during this sacred time of Advent,
that we, the children of the Church, reflecting on
the jealous care wherewith God preserved thee from
every stain of sin, because thou wast to be the
Mother of His divine Son, might prepare to receive
this same Jesus by the most perfect renouncing of
every sin, and every attachment to it. Cease not to
bless and protect all these that honor thy great
privilege of being conceived without sin. May this
feast fit us for the birth of Jesus in Bethlehem. Thou
art all beautiful, O Mary, and there is no stain of sin
in thee.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Lord Jesus, Who didst, for the love of us, etc.,
etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Sixteenth Day.</head>

<p>
The Church cries out a welcome to the advent
of Christ, during this time; making us feel
as if we sat in darkness, as if we were as degraded as
was man before the coming of the Messias: <q>O
Wisdom,</q> she cries out, <q>Who camest forth from
the mouth of the Most High, reaching in Thy
strength from end to end, and sweetly disposing all
things, come teach us the way of prudence.</q> The
first title given to Jesus is that of Wisdom, the eternal
Wisdom of God, and the source of all wisdom to
men for all time. The eternal Word disposes all
things sweetly: everything that happens in heaven
and on earth is arranged by Him, not unkindly, nor
harshly, but sweetly. We invite Him to come and
<pb n='518'/><anchor id='Pg518'/>
teach us the ways of prudence, because where there
is prudence all must be well. Teach me, O Jesus,
the lesson of prudence, which will guide me safely to
the kingdom of heaven. The prophet Micheas says
of the Child to be born in Bethlehem: <q>His going
forth is from the beginning from the days of eternity.</q>
O divine Wisdom, how strong art Thou, in
thus reaching Thine ends by means which are infallible
though hidden!
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Lord Jesus, Who didst, for the love of us, etc.,
etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Seventeenth Day.</head>

<p>
O Adonai and Leader of the house of Israel,
Who didst appear to Moses in the fire of the
flaming bush, and didst give him the Law on Sinai,
come and save us with a stretched forth arm! O sovereign,
almighty Lord, come to redeem us! Heretofore
Thou didst show Thyself to Moses in a fiery
bush, Thou didst give Thy Law to Thy people amidst
thunder and lightning on Mount Sinai; come and
redeem us now in the goodness of Thy Heart, in
kindness and love. Thy chaste Mother, having
heard the emperor's edict, which obliges her and
Joseph, her spouse, to repair to Bethlehem, prepares
everything needful for Thy divine birth. She makes
ready the humble swaddling-clothes which are to
cover and protect Thee from the cold of that midnight
hour. Thus it is that Thou willest to deliver
us from the slavery of pride, and to show man that
Thy divine arm is never stronger than when he thinks
it powerless. Everything is prepared for Thy reception,
<pb n='519'/><anchor id='Pg519'/>
except our hearts, which still await Thy holy
grace, which is to change them, and make them fit
temples for Thy abode.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Lord Jesus, Who didst, for the love of us, etc.,
etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Eighteenth Day.</head>

<p>
The expectation of the birth of Our Lord is
a fact which is celebrated throughout the
Church. The expectation of the world is now at
its greatest tension. Nobody knows whether the
event of the birth of Christ is going to take place
to-day, or to-morrow; but soon it will be accomplished.
Everything is in readiness; the earth
groans for need of the Lord, the holy people pray
that they may see the great day; we, too, on this
feast, will pray for the coming of the Lord. We
wish with all our hearts that the Messias would
come. Most just indeed it is, O holy Mother of
God, that we should unite in that ardent desire thou
hadst to see Him, Who had been concealed for nine
months in thy chaste womb; to know the features
of the Son of the heavenly Father; to come to that
blissful hour of His birth, which will give glory to
God in the highest, and on earth, peace to men of
good-will. Yes, dear Mother, the time is fast approaching,
though not fast enough to satisfy thy desires
and ours. Make us, O Mary, redouble our attention
to this great mystery; complete our preparation
by thy powerful prayers for us, that when His
hour has come, Jesus may find no obstacle to His
entry into our hearts.
</p>

<pb n='520'/><anchor id='Pg520'/>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Lord Jesus, Who didst, for the love of us, etc.,
etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Nineteenth Day.</head>

<p>
O Root of Jesse, Who standest as the standard of
the people, before Whom kings shall not
open their lips; to Whom the nations shall pray,
come and deliver us: tarry now no more. At length,
O Son of Jesse, Thou art approaching the city of Thy
ancestors! The ark of the Lord has arisen, and is
journeying with the God that is in her to the place
of rest. <q>How beautiful are thy steps, O thou
daughter of the Prince,</q> now that thou art bringing
to the cities of Juda their salvation! The angels
escort thee, heaven delights in thee, and earth thrills
with joy to bear thus upon itself, its Creator and its
Queen. Blessed is the womb of the Virgin Mary,
which bore the invisible God; there did He deign
to dwell, Whom even thrones cannot hold, and she
bore Him as a light weight. Our hearts, O Mary,
are with thee. Like thy royal ancestor, David, <q>we
will enter not into the dwelling, our house, nor go
up to bed whereon we lie, nor give sleep to our eyes,
nor rest to our temples,</q> until we have found the
place in our hearts for the Lord Whom thou bearest,
a tabernacle for this God of Jacob. Then will be
silenced the enemies of thy name, and nations will
offer thee their prayers.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Lord Jesus, Who didst, for the love of us, etc.,
etc.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='521'/><anchor id='Pg521'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twentieth Day.</head>

<p>
O Key of David and Sceptre of the house of
Israel! Who openest and no man shutteth;
Who shuttest and no man openeth; come and lead
the captive from prison, sitting in darkness, and in
the shadow of death. O Gabriel! blest messenger of
heaven, thou camest through closed doors, and didst
announce the word <q>Thou shalt conceive and
bear a Son, and He shall be called Emmanuel</q>!
O Jesus, Son of David, heir to his throne and his
power, Thou art now passing over, on Thy way to
Bethlehem, the land that once was the kingdom of
Thy ancestors, but now is tributary to the Gentiles.
Not an inch of this ground about Bethlehem, historic
for many centuries, but has witnessed the miracles
of the justice and mercy of Jehovah, Thy Father, to
the people of that Old Covenant which is so soon to
end. Before long, when Thou hast come from beneath
the virginal cloud which now hides Thee,
Thou wilt pass along this same road, doing good,
healing all manner of sickness and every infirmity;
and yet having not whereon to lay Thy head. Thou
art now about to come forth, Thou art now to
shine in the midst of this world's darkness. Open
the gates then, with this all powerful Key of David.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Lord Jesus, Who didst, for the love of us,
etc., etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-first Day.</head>

<p>
Orient Splendor of eternal light, and Sun of
justice! Come and enlighten them that sit
<pb n='522'/><anchor id='Pg522'/>
in darkness, and in the shadow of death. O Jesus,
bright light from heaven, the brightness of God
Himself, the Splendor of the early Sun: we welcome
Thee. We need Thy light, for we sit in darkness:
all are in darkness who commit sin, and the world is
full of sin. Jesus, the great Sun, must rise over this
darkness, that it may be dissipated, and a new life
may be infused into it; then the angel of darkness
will fly away; then will grow the life of light.
Nothing prospers in darkness; man sleeps and does
not work, plants fade and die; so that, O Light of
the splendid Orient, arise in our hearts! We beseech
Thee, O God, to remove from us all that resists
Thee, so that with a believing heart we may in
such a manner bring forth the branches of Thy gifts
bestowed on us, that the root of humility may never
dry up within us.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Lord Jesus, Who didst, for the love of us, etc.,
etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-second Day.</head>

<p>
O King of nations and their desired One, the
corner-stone that joinest the two walls! Come
and save man, whom Thou didst form out of slime.
O King of peace! Thou wast born before all ages!
come by the golden gate; visit those whom Thou
hast redeemed, and lead them back to the place from
whence they fell by sin. The journey of Our Lord
to Bethlehem is nearly over, and our blessed Mother
is engrossed entirely in the expectation of the coming
of her divine Son. She adores His majesty; she
gives thanks for His mercy; she rejoices that she
has been chosen for the sublime ministry of motherhood
<pb n='523'/><anchor id='Pg523'/>
towards the Son of God. Mary longs for that
happy day when her eyes will look upon Him, and
yet she fears that moment, too. How will she be
able to serve her God in His human life? How will
she dare to raise Him up in her arms&mdash;the King of
nations, and she but a humble Virgin? When she
reflects that the hour is approaching in which she is
to see the Light of the world, her heart almost fails
her, for on the one hand she knows that she bears
her God, and on the other she is full of love because
she is His Mother. Come, then, speedily
we beseech Thee, come and save us!
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Lord Jesus, Who didst, for the love of us, etc.,
etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-third Day.</head>

<p>
O Emmanuel, Our King and Lawgiver, the expectation
of the Gentiles and their Saviour, come
and save us, O Lord, Our God! O Jerusalem, city
of the great God! lift up thine eyes round about, and
see thy Lord, for He is coming to loose thee from thy
chains. As Mary and Joseph passed Jerusalem they
surely did not omit to visit the Temple of the Lord.
This was the first visit which Our Lord paid to His
Father's house. Then was fulfilled for the first time
the prophecy of Aggeus. <q>Great shall be the glory
of this last house, more than of the first.</q> Now was
standing in this second Temple the Ark of the New
Covenant, greater by far than the Ark of Moses.
The angels that lived in the Temple were roused to
special prayer on that occasion. Mary and Joseph,
when their devotions were ended, hastened on their
<pb n='524'/><anchor id='Pg524'/>
way in order that they might seek suitable shelter,
but they were to be disappointed everywhere. Thus
Jesus Christ, the Son of God, comes into the world.
</p>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Lord Jesus, Who didst, for the love of us, etc.,
etc.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Twenty-fourth Day.</head>

<p>
Mary and Joseph arrived in Bethlehem. They
knocked at several doors for admittance or
for information, but were invariably turned away;
for great was the crowd that was going the same
way. The rich had their houses engaged; the poor
had to look for shelter in any place. Joseph, mindful
of Mary, his spouse, was much concerned for her
comfort, and he did the best he could. After great
industry he at last found a cave where she might have
shelter from the open sky, and the darkness and
chilliness of the night. This holy eve is indeed full
of grace and hope, and we ought to spend it in
spiritual communion and joy. Let us enter into the
spirit of the Church, and prepare ourselves in all the
joy of our hearts to meet the Saviour Who is about
to be born to us. Let us dispose our hearts with
great simplicity, for to-morrow we shall see the glory
of God. Let us delight in the thought that before
we lie down again to rest, we shall see the promised
Redeemer born in the solemn midnight: <q>Sanctify
yourselves to-day, and be prepared, because in
the morning you shall see the majesty of God among
you.</q>
</p>

<pb n='525'/><anchor id='Pg525'/>

<p>
Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O God, Who makest us to rejoice in the yearly
expectation of the feast of the redemption:
grant that we, who joyfully receive Thy only-begotten
Son as a Redeemer, may behold without fear the
same Lord Jesus Christ, coming as our Judge: Who
livest and reignest world without end. Amen.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Special Devotions to Mary, the Mother of Jesus,
during the Time of Advent.</head>

<quote rend='display'>
The devotion of the forty Hail Marys, which St. Catharine
of Bologna introduced, has been enriched by Pope Pius
VII. An indulgence of forty days is granted to the faithful
who recite it during the month of December.
</quote>

<p>
Daily Prayer.
</p>

<p>
O Mary, great Mother of Our God, and merciful
intercessor for us poor sinners! we throw
ourselves humbly at thy feet, and we beg thee by the
sacred blood of Thy divine Son, which He has shed
for us, and by the prayers of St. Catharine of Bologna,
that thou wilt infuse into our hearts the true spirit
of devotion in this little exercise and give us the grace
to imitate the virtues of that saint, under whose protection
we say this prayer. Think not of our unworthiness
and our ingratitude, but let us feel the
depth of thy great love for us; and in the contemplation
of the love with which thou didst consider thy
servant Catharine, obtain for us from God the remission
of our sins, that we have a cause to expect the
grace of God for our salvation. Amen.
</p>

<pb n='526'/><anchor id='Pg526'/>

<p>
Prayer For Each Day.
</p>

<p>
Let us now take this devotion of this saint of God, Catharine,
and every day during this month before Christmas,
say a prayer in preparation for the coming of Christ, by reciting
forty Hail Marys in honor of the great Mother of God, who was
so well prepared to receive the Lord at His birth. We will have
sorrow for our sins, for that will purify our souls, which is a
necessary quality for the reception of the Lord at His coming.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The First Ten Hail Marys.</hi>
</p>

<p>
After each Hail Mary say:
</p>

<p>
<q>Blessed be the hour, O Mary, in which thou becamest
the Mother of Jesus, the Son of God.</q>
</p>

<p>
Then consider the great mystery of the incarnation of the
Son of God, the greatest miracle of God's mercy, also the
great dignity of Mary in the Christian world and in heaven,
because she became the Mother of God and yet remained a
Virgin.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Second Ten Hail Marys.</hi>
</p>

<p>
After each Hail Mary say:
</p>

<p>
<q>Blessed be the hour, O Mary, in which thou
didst give birth to Jesus, the Son of God.</q>
</p>

<p>
Then consider the humility of Mary, the Queen of heaven,
who was content with the will of God and became the Mother
of God in a lowly stable.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Third Ten Hail Marys.</hi>
</p>

<p>
After each Hail Mary say:
</p>

<p>
<q>Blessed be the hour, O Mary, in which thou
didst nourish and care for the Child Jesus.</q>
</p>

<p>
Then consider the solicitude of Mary, with which she looked
after the Child Jesus in all the temporal necessities of a newly
born infant, when, according to His own will, He was not
able to help Himself. She loved that Child, and spent upon
it her tenderest care.
</p>

<pb n='527'/><anchor id='Pg527'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Fourth Ten Hail Marys.</hi>
</p>

<p>
After each Hail Mary say:
</p>

<p>
<q>Blessed be the hour, O Mary, in which thou
didst screen Jesus, the Son of God, from the persecution
of Herod.</q>
</p>

<p>
Consider here that as soon as Jesus was born He became the
object of the persecution of men. Herod sought to murder
Him, and Mary had to take the Child and flee into Egypt.
</p>

<p>
Daily Prayer After These Devotions.
</p>

<p>
Praised be God, that we have undertaken this
devotion according to the instruction of St.
Catharine. We beg of thee, Mary, Mother of the expected
Child, and Queen of angels, that thou deignest
to obtain for us especially two graces. First,
to really bewail our sins and our past infidelities, and
second to attain after our death eternal salvation.
We will cry out from the bottom of our heart according
to the example of Catharine: <q>Turn then, Mary,
thine eyes of mercy towards us, and after this, our
exile, show us the blessed fruit of thy womb, Jesus.
O blessed, O pious, O sweet Virgin Mary!</q>
</p>

<p>
Then recite the Litany of the Blessed Virgin.<note place='foot'>Page <ref target='Pg234'>234</ref>.</note>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Make us worthy to praise thee, O Blessed Virgin,
Mother of my God.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> That I may have power against my enemies.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Let Us Pray.</hi>
</p>

<p>
O God, Who, after the announcement of the angel,
didst create a body for Thy divine Son
<pb n='528'/><anchor id='Pg528'/>
in the bosom of the Blessed Virgin Mary, grant us
the grace that we, who acknowledge her great privilege,
may be assisted by her intercession. We pray
Thee, O God almighty, that Thou mayest purify
our hearts and consciences by Thy heavenly visitation,
that Thy divine Son Jesus Christ, when He
shall come with all the saints, may find a fitting habitation
prepared for Him. Who livest and reignest,
one God, world without end. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Mass for Advent.</head>

<p>
In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of
the Holy Ghost. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Introibo.
</p>

<p>
O Jesus, the true and infinite sacrifice, I adore
Thee in the Blessed Sacrament, and I make
an offering of Thy sacred body, which Thou didst
deliver for us unto death on the cross, and Thy
sacred blood, which Thou didst shed for our sins, in
union with the priest who is about to say Mass.
Eternal and merciful Father, the Father of Our Lord
Jesus Christ, as well as Our Father! With the priest
I offer Thee a pure, holy, immaculate sacrifice, the
sacred bread of eternal life, the chalice of salvation,
the body and blood of Jesus Christ, Thy Son. Deign
to accept it, and be merciful to me a sinner. In
the spirit of humility and with a contrite heart, I
acknowledge, O my God, that I have sinned often
and grievously in thought, word, and deed, through
my most grievous fault. I know I have been guilty,
and I beg pardon of Thee, O heavenly Father,
through Thy infinite mercy, through the infinite
<pb n='529'/><anchor id='Pg529'/>
merits of Jesus Christ, and through the intercession
of all the saints. Amen.
</p>

<p>
The Priest Ascends The Altar.
</p>

<p>
O ye saints whose relics are kept on the altar,
and all ye saints and servants of God in
heaven, let me unite with thee in praising, loving
and adoring Our God in the Sacrament of the Altar!
Pray for all those who are assembled here; pray that
we may be heard and that we ourselves cry out,
<q>Lord, have mercy on us! Christ, have mercy on
us! Lord, have mercy on us!</q> Amen.
</p>

<p>
Gloria.
</p>

<p>
Glory to God in the highest! Glory, praise,
and adoration to the Most High, the one
true God, as it was in the beginning, is now, and
ever shall be for all eternity. Lord God, upon
Thee I place all my trust. Save me from every
danger, and keep me from every evil. The eyes of
all are upon Thee, O Lord, and Thou givest them
food; Thou fillest all that there is with Thy benediction.
I praise thee, also, O Mary, Mother of
God, and thank thee for all that I owe thee. Who
is it Whom we adore in the Blessed Sacrament but
Jesus, thy Son, Who took flesh and blood from thee!
What a joy must not thy heart experience when thou
seest so many devout worshippers surrounding the
throne of the majesty of Jesus, hidden in the consecrated
bread on our altars! Do thou also, O dear
Mother, sing with us the praises of that Jesus, for
Whose coming we are preparing during Advent.
Amen.
</p>

<pb n='530'/><anchor id='Pg530'/>

<p>
Collects.
</p>

<p>
Give us, O God, the grace daily to feel the advent
of Our Lord upon our altars, as we expect
Him to be born in our hearts at Christmas-time.
Grant that we may also be prepared to meet Him,
the Judge, at the end of time, and may find Him
propitious; through the same Jesus Christ Our Lord.
O God, Who didst leave with us, under the consecrated
species, a memory of Thy sufferings, give
us the grace that by our ardent faith we may adore
Thee in this Holy Sacrament, and become worthy
fruits of Thy holy Passion and death. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Epistle.
</p>

<p>
Accept, O God, this holy sacrifice in thanksgiving
for the institution of the Blessed Sacrament.
For in possessing the Blessed Sacrament we
possess heaven and earth, our cares are taken away,
and we have Jesus, Who cries continually to us:
<q>Come to Me, all you who are heavily laden, and I
will refresh you.</q> My dear Jesus, make me worthy
to praise Thee with all the angels and elect in Thy
kingdom. Let me serve Thee worthily here on this
earth, so that I may one day share Thy glory in
heaven. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Gospel.
</p>

<p>
Jesus, divine Physician of our souls! how can
we sufficiently thank Thee for having become
man, and for having dwelt among men? To perpetuate
Thy coming, Thou hast remained on our altars in
the Holy Sacrament. Thou hast preached the Gospel
to us poor creatures, and hast made us acquainted
<pb n='531'/><anchor id='Pg531'/>
with the secrets of heaven. Oh, that we would always
listen to Thy Word, and apply it to our life,
regulating all our actions on the principles of divine
wisdom manifested therein! Let Thy holy Gospel
and Thy holy teaching be a light to our lives in the
darkness in which we walk, on account of our prejudices,
passions, and evil inclinations, and when we
take this light for our guide, we are sure that we will
come happily to the end for which we were created.
Amen.
</p>

<p>
Credo.
</p>

<p>
I believe in one God, and in three divine persons
in that Godhead. I believe in one God,
the Father almighty, Maker of heaven and earth,
and of all things visible and invisible. And in one
Lord Jesus Christ, the only-begotten Son of God,
born of the Father before all ages. God of God,
Light of light, true God of true God, begotten, not
made; consubstantial with the Father by Whom all
things were made, Who for us men, and for our salvation,
came down from heaven and was incarnate
by the Holy Ghost of the Virgin Mary and was
made man! He was crucified also for us, suffered
under Pontius Pilate, and was buried. The third
day He rose again according to the Scriptures, and
ascended into heaven and sitteth at the right hand
of the Father: and He is to come again with glory
to judge both the living and the dead: of His kingdom
there shall be no end. And I believe in the
Holy Ghost, the Lord and Giver of life, Who proceedeth
from the Father and the Son: Who together
with the Father and the Son is adored and glorified:
Who spoke by the prophets. And one holy Catholic
<pb n='532'/><anchor id='Pg532'/>
and Apostolic Church. I confess one Baptism
for the remission of sins, and I expect the resurrection
of the dead, and the life of the world to come.
Amen.
</p>

<p>
Offertory.
</p>

<p>
I adore Thee, O my God, and in union with the
priest, offer Thee this sacrifice for Thy
honor and glory, in thanksgiving for all the benefits
conferred upon myself and upon the world; and in
satisfaction for my many sins, and the sins of other
men. Accept, O Lord, of this holocaust, which is
no other than Thy divine Son, at once made Priest
and Victim, offering and offered, and apply His saving
merits to my needy soul. Be comforted, O my
heart, Jesus sacrifices Himself for thee. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Lavabo.
</p>

<p>
O my Jesus, would that I could take Thee to
witness of the holiness of my life and the innocence
of my heart! But it is in Thy mercy only
that I place all my hope; my consolation is in
meditating on Thy promises to the penitent heart,
and Thy faithfulness in performing them. Confounded
at all that I have committed to this day, and
encouraged by the favors Thou hast bestowed upon
me, I can but promise to correspond better with
Thy graces than I have hitherto done. I will purify
myself more and more with the tears of penance; I
will bless Thee as I do this day, and I will sing of
the wonders of Thy power and of Thy mercy. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Orate Fratres.
</p>

<p>
The creature can offer nothing to the Creator
that can be worthy of His acceptance. I
<pb n='533'/><anchor id='Pg533'/>
unite myself, therefore, to the sacrifice of Jesus
Christ, Who alone can merit anything in my behalf.
I desire nothing but through Him and with Him.
I have no wish beyond Him. O God of mercy, I
seek nothing but Thy love! Graciously accept of
the sacrifice of my heart and my whole self and may
it, like the sacrifice of Jesus, be pleasing to Thee and
unite us to Him. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Preface.
</p>

<p>
Lift up, O Lord, do Thou Thyself lift up my
heart to Thee! Take from it all unholy
thoughts, all earthly affections! Lift it wholly up to
heaven, where Thou art worthily adored, and to the
altar, where Thou art about to manifest Thyself to
me. My life is but one continual succession of
Thy mercies; let it be one continual succession of
thanksgivings. And as Thou art now about to renew
the greatest of all sacrifices, is it not meet that I
should burst forth into expressions of heartfelt
gratitude? Suffer me, then, to join my feeble voice
with the voices of all the heavenly spirits, and in
union with them, say, in a transport of joy and
admiration: Holy, holy, holy, Lord God of Sabaoth;
heaven and earth are full of Thy glory.
Hosanna in the highest! Blessed is He that cometh
in the name of the Lord! Hosanna in the highest!
Amen.
</p>

<p>
Consecration.
</p>

<p>
Bow down your body and soul in solemn adoration;
make an act of faith in the real presence
of your Saviour's body and blood, soul and divinity,
<pb n='534'/><anchor id='Pg534'/>
under the sacramental veils. Offer your whole
self to Him, and through Him to His Father; beg
that your heart and soul may be happily changed into
Him.
</p>

<p>
Elevation Of The Host.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>Here the bell is rung thrice.</hi>)
</p>

<p>
Hail, true body, born of the Virgin Mary, which
didst truly suffer and was immolated on the
cross for man, Whose side was pierced, and from which
flowed water and blood; may we have a foretaste of
Thee in the last agony of death. O kind, O loving
One, Jesus, Son of Mary, have mercy on me! Amen.
</p>

<p>
Elevation Of The Chalice.
</p>

<p>
Saviour of the world, save us, for by Thy cross
and by Thy blood Thou hast redeemed us!
Help us, we beseech Thee, O Our God! Amen.
Have mercy on me, dear Jesus, and grant that Thy
blood may not be shed in vain for me, I humbly beseech
Thee. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Pater Noster.
</p>

<p>
Our Father, Who reignest in heaven, come and
reign in my soul; come and sanctify it by
Thy presence; come and subject it to Thy holy will,
and render it obedient to the inspirations of Thy
grace. Extinguish in my heart every feeling of
hatred and revenge; forgive me, as I forgive. Grant
me such wisdom and such strength that I may triumph
over all temptations. Deliver me from all
those evils which oppress me, and under which I
groan, being burdened. I come to Thee as a child
<pb n='535'/><anchor id='Pg535'/>
to his father to be fed; as a subject to his prince to
be protected; as one afflicted to his only succor, to
be consoled and comforted. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Agnus Dei.
</p>

<p>
In saying to Thy apostles, <q>Peace I leave to you,
My peace I give to you,</q> Thou hast promised,
O Lord, to all Thy Church, that peace which the
world cannot give&mdash;peace with Thee, and peace with
ourselves. Let nothing, O Lord, ever interrupt this
holy peace; let nothing separate us from Thee, to
Whom we heartily desire to be united, through the
Blessed Sacrament of peace and reconciliation. Let
this food of angels strengthen us in every Christian
duty, so that we nevermore yield under temptations,
or fall into common weaknesses.
</p>

<p>
Domine, Non Sum Dignus.
</p>

<p>
God can only be worthy of receiving God; how,
then, can a soul so sinful as mine merit so
great a happiness! But Thou, O Lord, regardest
not Thy greatness, but Thy mercy. Thou willest
that I come to Thee, as one sick to a physician who
can heal him; as one poor to his rich lord who can
assist. O God of love, behold at Thy feet the poorest,
the most infirm of Thy creatures. Unite me to
Thyself, and I shall become rich and whole in Thy
sight. Work, I beseech Thee, this miracle, worthy
of Thy omnipotence and charity.
</p>

<p>
Act Of Spiritual Communion.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>For Those Who do not Intend to Communicate.</hi>
</p>

<p>
O my most loving Saviour, since I cannot have
the happiness of receiving Thee this day,
<pb n='536'/><anchor id='Pg536'/>
suffer me to gather up the precious crumbs that fall
from Thy table, and to unite myself to Thy divine
Heart by faith, hope, and charity. I confess I do
not deserve the children's bread; but I venture
humbly to declare that, away from Thee, my soul is
dried up with thirst, and my heart cast down with
faintness. Come, then, into me, O my divine Jesus!
come into my mind, to illuminate it with Thy light;
come into my heart, to enkindle in it the fire of
Thy love, and to unite it so intimately with Thine
own, that it may be no more I that live, but Thou
that livest in me and reignest in me forever.
</p>

<p>
Last Gospel.
</p>

<p>
O eternal Word, speak to my soul, which adores
Thee in profound silence! Thou Who art the
great Creator of all things, abandon not, I beseech
Thee, Thine own creature! be Thou my life, my
light, and my all! O Light eternal! enlighten me
as to this present life, and in the life to come.
Reign in me as in Thine own inheritance; for Thou,
O Lord, hast made me; Thou hast redeemed me.
May I ever be Thine!
</p>

<p>
After Mass.
</p>

<p>
Accept, O most gracious God, this, our service;
whatever, by Thy grace, we may have performed
with diligence, in Thy clemency regard;
and what we have done with negligence, mercifully
pardon, through Jesus Christ Our Lord. Amen.
May the blessing of almighty God, Father, Son, and
Holy Ghost, descend upon us now, and remain with
us forever. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='537'/><anchor id='Pg537'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>To Be Said Throughout Advent.</head>

<p>
Ant. The Holy Ghost shall come down upon
thee, O Mary: fear not: thou shalt bear
within thy womb the Son of God. Alleluia.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> O Lord, hear my prayer.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And let my cry come unto Thee.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Let Us Pray.</hi>
</p>

<p>
O God, Who wast pleased that Thy Word should
take flesh in the womb of the Blessed Virgin
Mary, and didst make it known unto her by the message
of an angel; grant that we, Thy suppliants,
who truly believe her to be the Mother of God,
may through her intercession find help with Thee.
Through the same Christ Our Lord. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Litany for Christmas.</head>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>For Private Devotion Only.</hi>)
</p>

<lg>
<l>Glory be to God on high.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>And peace on earth to men of good will.</hi></l>
<l>We praise Thee.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>We bless Thee.</hi></l>
<l>We adore Thee.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>We glorify Thee; we give Thee thanks for Thy great glory.</hi></l>
<l>Lord God, heavenly King, Father almighty.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Lord Jesus Christ, the only-begotten Son.</hi></l>
<l>Lord God, Lamb of God, Son of the Father, Who takest away the sins of the world,</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>Who takest away the sins of the world,</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Hear our prayers.</hi></l>
<l>Who sitteth at the right hand of the Father,</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Have mercy on us.</hi></l>
<l>For Thou only art holy,</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Thou only art Our Lord.</hi></l>
<pb n='538'/><anchor id='Pg538'/>
<l>Thou only, O Jesus Christ, art most high, together with the Holy Ghost, in the glory of God the Father.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Amen.</hi></l>
<l>Blessed Jesus, true God and man, born in the form of a helpless infant.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Praise and glory be to Thee forever.</hi></l>
<l>Blessed Jesus, Who, having the heavens for Thy throne, didst yet choose a poor stable for Thine abode.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Praise and glory be to Thee forever.</hi></l>
<l>Blessed Jesus, Who, being God incomprehensible, wast pleased, in love to us, to be wrapped up in swaddling-clothes and laid in a manger.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Praise and glory be to Thee forever.</hi></l>
<l>Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, because He hath visited and wrought the redemption of His people.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>And hath raised up a horn of salvation to us in the house of David His servant.</hi></l>
<l>As He spoke by the mouth of His holy prophets, who are from the beginning.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Salvation from our enemies, and from the hand of all that hate us.</hi></l>
<l>To perform mercy to our fathers, and to remember His holy testament.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>The oath, which He swore to Abraham our father, that He would grant to us.</hi></l>
<l>That being delivered from the hand of our enemies, we may serve Him without fear.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>In holiness and justice before Him all our days.</hi></l>
<l>Through the bowels of the mercy of Our God, in which the Orient from on high hath visited us.</l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>To enlighten them that sit in darkness and in the shadow of death; to direct our feet into the way of peace.</hi></l>
</lg>

<p>
Glory be to the Father, etc.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Let Us Pray.</hi>
</p>

<p>
O eternal God, Father almighty, Who in compassion to
lost man didst send Thine only Son to become His Redeemer
from that unhappy state; grant, we beseech Thee, that
we, who are here assembled to acknowledge the mercy of this
time, may find the benefit of it in our souls, in the pardon of all
our sins. Through the same Lord Jesus Christ, etc.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='539'/><anchor id='Pg539'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Crown of the Twelve Stars, Or Rosary of the Immaculate Conception.</head>

<p>
Let us praise and bless the most Holy Trinity,
for having shown to us the Virgin Mary
clothed with the sun, with the moon beneath her
feet, and with a mysterious crown of twelve stars
upon her head.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Forever and forever. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Let us praise and bless the divine Father, for having
chosen her as His daughter.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen. Our Father, etc.
</p>

<p>
Praised be the divine Father, for having predestined
her to be the Mother of His divine Son.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen. Hail Mary, etc.
</p>

<p>
Praised be the divine Father, for having preserved
her from all sin in her conception.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen. Hail Mary, etc.
</p>

<p>
Praised be the divine Father, for having adorned
her with the highest gifts in her nativity.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen. Hail Mary, etc.
</p>

<p>
Praised be the divine Father, for having given
her St. Joseph as a most pure spouse and companion.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen. Hail Mary, Glory be to the Father,
etc.
</p>

<p>
Let us praise and bless the divine Son, for having
chosen her for His Mother.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen. Our Father, etc.
</p>

<p>
Praised be the divine Son, for having become incarnate
in her womb, and for having remained there
nine months.
</p>

<pb n='540'/><anchor id='Pg540'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen. Hail Mary, etc.
</p>

<p>
Praised be the divine Son, for having been born of
her, and for having given her the milk wherewith to
nourish Him.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen. Hail Mary, etc.
</p>

<p>
Praised be the divine Son, for having been pleased
in His childhood to be educated by her.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen. Hail Mary, etc.
</p>

<p>
Praised be the divine Son, for having revealed
to her the mysteries of the redemption of the
world.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen. Hail Mary, Glory be to the Father,
etc.
</p>

<p>
Let us praise and bless the Holy Ghost, for having
taken her for His spouse.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen. Our Father, etc.
</p>

<p>
Praised be the Holy Ghost, for having revealed to
her for the first time His name of Holy Ghost.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen. Hail Mary, etc.
</p>

<p>
Praised be the Holy Ghost, through Whose operation
she was at once Virgin and Mother.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen. Hail Mary, etc.
</p>

<p>
Praised be the Holy Ghost, through Whose power
she became the living temple of the most Holy
Trinity.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen. Hail Mary, etc.
</p>

<p>
Praised be the Holy Ghost, by Whom she was
exalted in heaven above all creatures.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen. Hail Mary, Glory be to the Father,
etc.
</p>

<p>
For the holy Catholic Church, for the propagation
of the faith, for peace among Christian
princes, and for the extirpation of heresies, let us
say
</p>

</div>

<pb n='541'/><anchor id='Pg541'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Salve Regina.</head>

<p>
Hail, holy Queen, Mother of mercy, our life, our
sweetness, and our hope. To thee do we cry,
poor banished children of Eve; to thee do we send
up our sighs, mourning and weeping in this valley
of tears. Turn, then, most gracious advocate, thine
eye of mercy towards us, and after this our exile,
show unto us the blessed fruit of thy womb, Jesus;
O clement, O pious, O sweet Virgin Mary.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Pray for us, O holy Mother of God.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> That we may be made worthy of the promises
of Christ.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Novena In Preparation for the Feast of the Immaculate
Conception.<note place='foot'>This novena is begun on the twenty-ninth of November.</note></head>

<quote rend='display'>
An indulgence of three hundred days each day; plenary
once on the feast, or during the octave. Applicable to the
dead. (Pius VII.).
</quote>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>To be Said Every Day.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Come, O Holy Spirit, fill the hearts of Thy faithful,
and kindle within them the fire of Thy
love.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Send forth Thy Spirit, and they shall be
created.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And Thou shalt renew the face of the earth.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Let Us Pray.</hi>
</p>

<p>
O God, Who hast taught the hearts of the faithful
by the light of Thy Holy Spirit, grant to us
<pb n='542'/><anchor id='Pg542'/>
in the same spirit to relish what is right, and ever to
rejoice in His consolation. Prevent our actions, we
beseech Thee, O Lord, by Thy inspiration, and
further them by Thy continual help: that every
prayer and work of ours may begin from Thee, and
by Thee be happily ended, through Our Lord Jesus
Christ, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee in the
unity of the same spirit, God, world without end.
Amen.
</p>

<p>
Preparatory Prayer.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>To be Said Every Day.</hi>)
</p>

<p>
O most pure Virgin, conceived without sin, and
from that very first instant entirely beautiful
and without spot, O glorious Mary, full of grace, and
Mother of my God, Queen of angels and of men, I
humbly worship thee as Mother of my Saviour.
Inasmuch as God has taught me by the esteem He
has for thee, and by His respect and submission
towards thee, what honors and homage I ought to
render thee, deign, I beseech thee, to accept this
novena which I consecrate to thee. Thou art the
secure refuge of penitent sinners, and I therefore
may rightly have recourse to thee; thou art the
Mother of mercy, and therefore thou canst not but
be melted into tenderness by my miseries; thou,
after Jesus Christ, art all my hope; thou canst not,
then, but be pleased with the tender confidence
which I have in thee. Make me worthy to be called
thy child, that I may be able to say with confidence,
Show thyself to be a Mother.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Following this prayer on each day, nine Hail Marys and a
Glory be to the Father are to be said, and then the following:
</quote>

<pb n='543'/><anchor id='Pg543'/>

<p>
First Day.
</p>

<p>
Behold me at thy most holy feet, O immaculate
Virgin. I rejoice with thee exceedingly that
from all eternity thou hast been chosen to be the
Mother of the eternal Word, and been preserved
from original sin. I thank and bless the most Holy
Trinity for having enriched thee with these privileges
in thy conception; and I humbly implore thee to
obtain for me grace to overcome those sad effects
which original sin has wrought in me. Ah, do thou
enable me to conquer them, and nevermore to cease
to love my God.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Here is to be recited the Litany of the Blessed Virgin, or the
following:
</quote>

<p>
Hymn.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Thou art all fair, O Mary.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Thou art all fair, O Mary.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> And the original stain is not in thee.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And the original stain is not in thee.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Thou art the glory of Jerusalem.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Thou art the joy of Israel.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Thou our people's special honor.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Thou the advocate of sinners.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> O Mary.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> O Mary.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Virgin prudent above all.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Mother too most merciful.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Pray thou for us.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Intercede for us with Jesus Christ Our Lord.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> In thy conception, holy Virgin, thou wast
immaculate.
</p>

<pb n='544'/><anchor id='Pg544'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Pray for us to the Father, Whose Son thou didst bring forth.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Let Us Pray.</hi>
</p>

<p>
O God, Who by the Virgin's immaculate conception
didst prepare a worthy dwelling for Thy
Son, we beseech Thee, that Thou, Who, by the
death of that same Son of Thine, foreseen by Thee,
didst preserve her from every stain, wouldst grant
that by her intercession we also may be purified, and
so come to Thee.
</p>

<p>
Second Day.
</p>

<p>
Come, O Holy Spirit, etc.
</p>

<p>
O most pure Virgin, etc.
</p>

<p>
O Mary, immaculate lily of purity, I congratulate
thee that from the very first instant of thy
conception thou wast filled with grace, and also that
the perfect use of reason was conferred upon thee.
I thank and adore the most Holy Trinity for having
imparted to thee graces so sublime; and I am
utterly confounded before thee to see myself so poor
in grace. Do thou, who wast so entirely filled with
heavenly grace, give some portion of it to my soul,
and make me a partaker of the treasures of thy immaculate
conception.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Here the Litany or Hymn is to be said.
</quote>

<p>
Third Day.
</p>

<p>
Come, O Holy Spirit, etc.
</p>

<p>
O most pure Virgin, etc.
</p>

<p>
O Mary, mystical rose of purity, I rejoice with
thee that thou didst gloriously triumph in thy
<pb n='545'/><anchor id='Pg545'/>
immaculate conception over the infernal serpent, and
that thou wast conceived without stain of original
sin. I thank and praise with all my heart the most
Holy Trinity for having granted to thee such a
privilege; and I implore thee to obtain for me
courage to overcome every device of the infernal
enemy, and not to stain my soul with sin. Ah, do
thou always assist me; and let me, under thy
protection, ever triumph over the common enemies
of our eternal salvation.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Here the Litany or the Hymn is to be said.
</quote>

<p>
Fourth Day.
</p>

<p>
Come, O Holy Spirit, etc.
</p>

<p>
O most pure Virgin, etc.
</p>

<p>
O immaculate Virgin Mary, mirror of purity, I
rejoice with the utmost joy to see that the
most sublime and perfect virtues have been from thy
first conception infused into thee, and with them all
the gifts of the Holy Spirit. I thank and praise the
most Holy Trinity for having favored thee with
these privileges; and I implore thee, O gracious
Mother, to obtain for me the practice of virtues, and
to render me thus worthy to receive the gifts and
the grace of the Holy Spirit.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Here the Litany or the Hymn is to be said.
</quote>

<p>
Fifth Day.
</p>

<p>
Come, O Holy Spirit, etc.
</p>

<p>
O most pure Virgin, etc.
</p>

<p>
O Mary, bright moon of purity, I congratulate
thee, inasmuch as the mystery of thy immaculate
conception was the beginning of the salvation
<pb n='546'/><anchor id='Pg546'/>
of all the human race and the joy of the whole
world. I thank and bless the most Holy Trinity for
having so exalted and glorified thy person; and I
implore thee to obtain for me grace to know how to
profit by the Passion and death of thy Jesus, and
that the blood shed upon the cross may not be unavailing
for me, but that I may live holily and be
saved.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Here the Litany or the Hymn is to be said.
</quote>

<p>
Sixth Day.
</p>

<p>
Come, O Holy Spirit, etc.
</p>

<p>
O most pure Virgin, etc.
</p>

<p>
O immaculate Mary, most resplendent star of
purity, I rejoice with thee that thy immaculate
conception has brought a most exceeding joy to
all the angels of paradise. I thank and bless the
most Holy Trinity for having enriched thee with so
beautiful a privilege. Ah, grant that I may enter
one day into a participation of that joy, and may be
able, in the company of the angels, to praise and bless
thee for eternity.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Here the Litany or the Hymn is to be said.
</quote>

<p>
Seventh Day.
</p>

<p>
Come, O Holy Spirit, etc.
</p>

<p>
O most pure Virgin, etc.
</p>

<p>
O immaculate Mary, rising morn of purity, I rejoice
with thee, and am glad that in the
moment of thy conception thou wast confirmed
in grace and made incapable of sin. I thank
and extol the most Holy Trinity for having distinguished
thee alone with this special privilege.
<pb n='547'/><anchor id='Pg547'/>
Ah, obtain for me, O holy Virgin, an entire and
constant abhorrence of sin above every other evil,
and that I may sooner die than commit it any more.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Here the Litany or the Hymn is to be said.
</quote>

<p>
Eighth Day.
</p>

<p>
Come, O Holy Spirit, etc.
</p>

<p>
O most pure Virgin, etc.
</p>

<p>
O Virgin Mary, sun without spot, I congratulate
thee, and rejoice that in thy conception a
greater and more abundant grace was bestowed upon
thee than all the angels and saints possessed in the
fulness of their merits. I thank and admire the
sovereign goodness of the most Holy Trinity in having
enriched thee with this privilege. Ah, enable
me to correspond to divine grace, and nevermore
abuse it! Change my heart, and let me from this
moment begin to amend my life.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Here the Litany or the Hymn is to be said.
</quote>

<p>
Ninth Day.
</p>

<p>
Come, O Holy Spirit, etc.
</p>

<p>
O most pure Virgin, etc.
</p>

<p>
O immaculate Virgin and Mother Mary, living
light of holiness and model of purity, thou,
when scarcely yet conceived, didst profoundly adore
God and thank Him, because by thy means, the
ancient curse being taken away, the fulness of blessing
was coming upon the children of Adam. Ah,
let this blessing enkindle in my heart a love of God!
Do thou inflame it, that I may love Him constantly,
and then enjoy Him eternally in paradise, where I
may be able to thank Him more ardently for the
<pb n='548'/><anchor id='Pg548'/>
singular privileges granted to thee, and behold thee
also crowned as thou art with such exceeding glory.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Here the Litany or the Hymn is to be said.
</quote>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Novena In Preparation For Christmas.<note place='foot'>The novena is begun on the sixteenth day of the month.</note></head>

<p>
1. Eternal Father, I offer to Thy honor and
glory, and for my own salvation, and for
the salvation of all the world, the mystery of the
birth of our divine Saviour.
</p>

<p>
Glory be to the Father, etc.
</p>

<p>
2. Eternal Father, I offer to Thy honor and
glory, and for my eternal salvation, the sufferings of
the most holy Virgin and of St. Joseph in that long
and weary journey from Nazareth to Bethlehem; I
offer Thee their anxiety of heart when they found
no place wherein to shelter themselves, when the
Saviour of the world was to be born.
</p>

<p>
Glory be to the Father, etc.
</p>

<p>
3. Eternal Father, I offer to Thy honor and
glory, and for my eternal salvation, the stable where
Jesus was born, the hard straw which served Him
for a bed, the cold He suffered, the swaddling-clothes
which bound Him, the tears He shed, and
His tender infant cries.
</p>

<p>
Glory be to the Father, etc.
</p>

<p>
4. Eternal Father, I offer to Thy honor and
glory, and for my eternal salvation, the pain which
the holy Child Jesus felt in His tender infant body
when He submitted it to the keen knife of circumcision;
<pb n='549'/><anchor id='Pg549'/>
I offer Thee that precious blood which then
first He shed for the salvation of the whole race of
man.
</p>

<p>
Glory be to the Father, etc.
</p>

<p>
5. Eternal Father, I offer to Thy honor and
glory, and for my eternal salvation, the humility,
mortification, patience, charity, all the virtues of the
Child Jesus; and I thank Thee, and I love Thee,
and I bless Thee without end, for this ineffable
mystery of the incarnation of the divine Word.
</p>

<p>
Glory be to the Father, etc.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> The Word was made flesh.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And dwelt among us.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Let Us Pray.</hi>
</p>

<p>
O God, Whose only-begotten Son was made manifest
to us in the substance of our flesh; grant,
we beseech Thee, that through Him our souls may
be inwardly renewed, Whom our eyes have seen externally
like unto ourselves; Who livest and reignest
with Thee forever and ever. Amen.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
An indulgence of one year, to be gained each day of this
novena, which may be made either in public or private, nine
days previous to the twenty-fifth day of any month; provided
that the faithful assist at it with a contrite heart (Pius IX.).
</quote>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='550'/><anchor id='Pg550'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Ordinary of the Mass.</head>

<p>
[Transcriber's Note: This section was printed in two columns, with Latin on the left
and English on the right. In this e-book, the Latin and English are rendered in
successive paragraphs.]
</p>

<p>
The Asperges.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
While the priest sprinkles holy water, the following Anthems
are sung:
</quote>

<p>
Ant. Asperges me,
Domine, hyssopo,
et mundabor: lavabis me,
et super nivem dealbabor.
</p>

<p>
Ant. Thou shalt sprinkle
me with hyssop,
O Lord, and I shall
be cleansed: Thou shalt
wash me, and I shall be
made whiter than snow.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Ps.</hi> Miserere mei,
Deus, secundum magnam
misericordiam tuam.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>Ps.</hi> Have mercy on
me, O God, according to
Thy great mercy.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Gloria Patri, etc.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Glory be to the
Father, etc.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Ant.</hi> Asperges me, etc.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>Ant.</hi> Thou shalt sprinkle,
etc.)
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
The priest, returning to the foot of the altar, says:
</quote>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Ostende nobis, Domine,
misericordiam
tuam.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Show us, O Lord,
Thy mercy.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Et salutare tuum da
nobis.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And grant us Thy
salvation.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Domine, exaudi
orationem meam.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> O Lord, hear my
prayer.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Et clamor meus ad
te veniat.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And let my cry
come unto Thee.)
</p>

<pb n='551'/><anchor id='Pg551'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Dominus vobiscum.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> The Lord be with you.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Et cum spiritu tuo.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And with thy
spirit.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Oremus.</hi>
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>Let Us Pray.</hi>)
</p>

<p>
Exaudi nos, Domine
sancte, Pater omnipotens,
æterne Deus:
et mittere digneris sanctum
angelum tuum de
cœlis, qui custodiat, foveat,
protegat, visitet, atque
defendat omnes habitantes
in hoc habitaculo.
Per Christum Dominum
nostrum.
</p>

<p>
(Graciously hear us,
O Lord, Father
almighty, eternal God:
and vouchsafe to send
Thy holy angel from
heaven, who may keep,
cherish, protect, visit,
and defend all who
dwell in this habitation.
Through Christ Our Lord.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Vidi Aquam.</hi>
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
From Easter to Whit-Sunday, inclusively, instead of the
foregoing Antiphon the following is sung, and <hi rend='italic'>Alleluia</hi> is
added to the versicles and responses.
</quote>

<p>
Ant. Vidi aquam
egredientem de
templo, a latere dextro.
Alleluia! Et omnes ad
quos pervenit aqua ista,
salvi facti sunt, et dicent:
Alleluia.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>Ant.</hi> I saw water
coming forth from
the temple, on the right
side. Alleluia. And all
those to whom this water
came were saved, and
shall say: Alleluia.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Ps.</hi> Confitemini Domino,
quoniam bonus: quoniam
in sæculum misericordia
ejus.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>Ps.</hi> Give praise to the
Lord, for He is good: for
His mercy endureth forever.)
</p>

<pb n='552'/><anchor id='Pg552'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Gloria Patri, etc.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Glory be to the
Father, etc.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Ant.</hi> Vidi aquam, etc.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>Ant.</hi> I saw water, etc.)
</p>

<p>
The Holy Mass.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
The priest, standing at the foot of the altar, bows down,
signs himself with the sign of the cross, and says:
</quote>

<p>
In nomine Patris, et
Filii, et Spiritus
Sancti. Amen.
</p>

<p>
(In the name of the
Father, and of the
Son, etc.)
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Then, joining his hands, he says:
</quote>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>S.</hi> Introibo ad altare
Dei.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>P.</hi> I will go in to the
altar of God.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>M.</hi> Ad Deum, qui lætificat
juventutem meam.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> To God, Who
giveth joy to my youth.)
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
In Masses for the dead and from Passion Sunday to Holy
Saturday the following Psalm is omitted.
</quote>

<p>
Psalm XLII.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>S.</hi> Judica me, Deus, et
discerne causam meam de
gente non sancta: ab homine
iniquo et doloso erue
me.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>P.</hi> Judge me, O God,
and distinguish my cause
from the nation that is not
holy: from the unjust and
deceitful man deliver me.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>M.</hi> Quia tu es, Deus,
fortitudo mea, quare me
repulisti? et quare tristis
incedo dum affligit me
inimicus?
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Since Thou, O God,
art my strength, why hast
Thou cast me off? and
why do I go sorrowful
while the enemy afflicteth
me?)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>S.</hi> Emitte lucem tuam
et veritatem tuam: ipsa
me deduxerunt et adduxerunt
in montem sanctum
tuum, et in tabernacula
tua.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>P.</hi> Send forth Thy
light and Thy truth: they
have conducted me, and
brought me to Thy holy
mount, and into Thy tabernacles.)
</p>

<pb n='553'/><anchor id='Pg553'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>M.</hi> Et introibo ad altare
Dei: ad Deum, qui
lætificat juventutem
meam.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And I will go in to
the altar of God: to God,
Who giveth joy to my
youth.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>S.</hi> Confitebor tibi in
cithara, Deus, Deus meus:
quare tristis es, anima
mea? et quare conturbas
me?
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>P.</hi> I will praise Thee
on the harp, O God, my
God: why art thou sad,
my soul? and why dost
thou disquiet me?)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>M.</hi> Spera in Deo, quoniam
adhuc confitebor
illi: salutare vultus mei,
et Deus meus.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Hope in God, for
I will still give praise to
Him, the salvation of
my countenance, and my
God.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>S.</hi> Gloria Patri, et
Filio, et Spiritui Sancto.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>P.</hi> Glory be to the Father,
and to the Son, and
to the Holy Ghost.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>M.</hi> Sicut erat in principio,
et nunc et semper, et
in sæcula sæculorum.
Amen.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> As it was in the beginning,
is now, and ever
shall be, world without
end. Amen.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>S.</hi> Introibo ad altare
Dei.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>P.</hi> I will go in to the
altar of God.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>M.</hi> Ad Deum, qui lætificat
juventutem meam.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> To God, Who
giveth joy to my youth.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>S.</hi> Adjutorium nostrum
in nomine Domini.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>P.</hi> Our help is in the
name of the Lord.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>M.</hi> Qui fecit cœlum et
terram.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Who made heaven
and earth.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>S.</hi> Confiteor, etc.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>P.</hi> I confess, etc.)
</p>

<pb n='554'/><anchor id='Pg554'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>M.</hi> Misereatur tui omnipotens
Deus, et dimissis
peccatis tuis, perducat te
ad vitam æternam.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> May almighty God
be merciful to thee, and
forgiving thee thy sins,
bring thee to everlasting
life.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>S.</hi> Amen.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>P.</hi> Amen.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>M.</hi> Confiteor Deo omnipotenti,
beatæ Mariæ
semper virgini, beato
Michaeli Archangelo,
beato Joanni Baptistæ,
sanctis Apostolis Petro et
Paulo, omnibus sanctis, et
tibi, Pater, quia peccavi
nimis cogitatione, verbo
et opere: mea culpa, mea
culpa, mea maxima culpa.
Ideo precor beatam Mariam
semper virginem,
beatum Michaelem archangelum,
beatum Joannem
Baptistam, sanctos Apostolos
Petrum et Paulum,
omnes sanctos, et te Pater,
orare pro me ad Dominum
Deum nostrum.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> I confess to almighty
God, to blessed
Mary, ever virgin, to
blessed Michael the archangel,
to blessed John the
Baptist, to the holy apostles
Peter and Paul, to all
the saints, and to you, father,
that I have sinned
exceedingly in thought,
word, and deed: through
my fault, through my
fault, through my most
grievous fault. Therefore
I beseech the blessed
Mary, ever virgin, blessed
Michael the archangel,
blessed John the Baptist,
the holy apostles Peter
and Paul, and all the
saints, and you, father,
to pray to the Lord, Our
God, for me.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>S.</hi> Misereatur vestri
omnipotens Deus, et dimissis
peccatis vestris perducat
vos ad vitam æternam.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>P.</hi> May the almighty
God be merciful unto you,
and forgiving you your
sins bring you to life
everlasting.)
</p>

<pb n='555'/><anchor id='Pg555'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>M.</hi> Amen.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>S.</hi> Indulgentiam, absolutionem,
et remissionem
peccatorum nostrorum tribuat
nobis omnipotens et
misericors Dominus.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>P.</hi> May the almighty
and merciful Lord grant
us pardon, absolution, and
remission of our sins.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>M.</hi> Amen.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>S.</hi> Deus, tu conversus
vivificabis nos.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>P.</hi> Thou, O God, being
turned toward us, wilt
enliven us.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>M.</hi> Et plebs tua lætabitur
in te.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And Thy people
will rejoice in Thee.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>S.</hi> Ostende nobis,
Domine, misericordiam
tuam.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>P.</hi> Show us, O Lord,
Thy mercy.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>M.</hi> Et salutare tuum da
nobis.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And grant us Thy
salvation.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>S.</hi> Domine, exaudi
orationem meam.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>P.</hi> O Lord, hear my
prayer.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>M.</hi> Et clamor meus ad
te veniat.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And let my cry
come to Thee.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>S.</hi> Dominus vobiscum.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>P.</hi> The Lord be with
you.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>M.</hi> Et cum spiritu tuo.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And with thy spirit.)
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
The priest first extends and then joins his hands, saying
audibly <hi rend='italic'>Oremus</hi>; and ascending the altar, he says secretly:
</quote>

<p>
Aufer a nobis, quæsumus,
Domine,
iniquitates nostras: ut ad
sancta sanctorum puris
mereamur mentibus introire.
Per Christum
Dominum nostrum.
Amen.
</p>

<p>
(Take away from us
our iniquities, we
beseech Thee, O Lord,
that we may be worthy to
enter with pure minds
into the Holy of holies.
Through Christ Our Lord.
Amen.)
</p>

<pb n='556'/><anchor id='Pg556'/>

<quote rend='display'>
He then bows over the altar, and says:
</quote>

<p>
Oramus te, Domine,
per merita sanctorum
tuorum, quorum reliquiæ
hic sunt, et omnium
sanctorum tuorum, ut
indulgere digneris omnia
peccata mea. Amen.
</p>

<p>
(We beseech Thee, O
Lord, by the merits
of Thy saints whose
relics are here, and of all
the saints, that Thou
wouldst vouchsafe to forgive
me all my sins.
Amen.)
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
At solemn High Mass the priest receives the censer from
the deacon, and incenses the altar, and then returns it to the
deacon, who incenses the priest only. Then the priest turns
to the book and reads the <hi rend='italic'>Introit</hi>, which varies according to
the seasons and feasts. The following <hi rend='italic'>Introit</hi> is from the
Mass of the most Holy Trinity:
</quote>

<p>
Benedicta sit sancta
Trinitas, atque indivisa
Unitas: confitebimur
ei, quia fecit nobiscum
misericordiam suam.
</p>

<p>
(Blessed be the Holy
Trinity and undivided
Unity: we will
praise Him, because He
has shown us His mercy.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Ps.</hi> Domine, Dominus
noster, quam admirabile
est nomen tuum in universa
terra!
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>Ps.</hi> O Lord, Our God,
how wonderful is Thy
name over the utmost
boundaries of the earth!)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Gloria Patri, etc.
Benedicta, etc.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Glory be to the
Father, etc. Blessed, etc.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>S.</hi> Kyrie eleison.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>P.</hi> Lord, have mercy
on us.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>M.</hi> Kyrie eleison.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Lord, have mercy
on us.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>S.</hi> Kyrie eleison.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>P.</hi> Lord, have mercy
on us.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>M.</hi> Christe eleison.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Christ, have mercy
on us.)
</p>

<pb n='557'/><anchor id='Pg557'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>S.</hi> Christe eleison.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>P.</hi> Christ, have mercy
on us.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>M.</hi> Christe eleison.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Christ, have mercy
on us.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>S.</hi> Kyrie eleison.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>P.</hi> Lord, have mercy
on us.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>M.</hi> Kyrie eleison.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Lord, have mercy
on us.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>S.</hi> Kyrie eleison.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>P.</hi> Lord, have mercy
on us.)
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
The <hi rend='italic'>Gloria in excelsis</hi> is omitted in Masses for the dead and
in certain Masses during Advent and Lent.
</quote>

<p>
Gloria in excelsis
Deo, et in terra
pax hominibus bonæ voluntatis.
Laudamus te.
Benedicimus te. Adoramus
te. Glorificamus te.
Gratias agimus tibi propter
magnam gloriam tuam:
Domine Deus, Rex cœlestis,
Deus Pater omnipotens.
Domine Fili unigenite,
Jesu Christe; Domine
Deus, Agnus Dei, Filius
Patris: qui tollis peccata
mundi, miserere nobis.
Qui tollis peccata mundi,
suscipe deprecationem
nostram. Qui sedes ad
dexteram Patris, miserere
nobis. Quoniam tu solus
sanctus: tu solus Dominus:
tu solus altissimus,
Jesu Christe; cum Sancto
Spiritu in gloria Dei Patris.
Amen.
</p>

<p>
(Glory be to God on
high, and on
earth peace to men of
good will. We praise
Thee. We bless Thee.
We adore Thee. We
glorify Thee. We give
Thee thanks for Thy
great glory, O Lord God,
heavenly King, God the
Father almighty. O
Lord Jesus Christ, the
only-begotten Son; O
Lord God, Lamb of God,
Son of the Father. Who
takest away the sins of
the world, have mercy on
us. Who takest away the
sins of the world, receive
our prayers. Who sittest
at the right hand of the
Father, have mercy on us.
For Thou only art holy,
Thou only art the Lord,
Thou only art most high,
O Jesus Christ, together
with the Holy Ghost in
the glory of God the
Father. Amen.)
</p>

<pb n='558'/><anchor id='Pg558'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Dominus vobiscum.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> The Lord be with
you.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Et cum spiritu tuo.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And with thy
spirit.)
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Then follow the <hi rend='italic'>Collects</hi>, prayers proper for the feast or season.
The following is from the Mass of the most Holy Trinity,
as are all the varying prayers and Scripture texts that occur
henceforth in this Mass.
</quote>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Let Us Pray.</hi>
</p>

<p>
O almighty and everlasting God, Who hast
granted Thy servants, in the confession of
the true faith, to acknowledge the glory of an eternal
Trinity, and in the power of majesty to adore a
Unity: we beseech Thee that, by the strength of
this faith, we may be defended from all adversity.
Through Our Lord Jesus Christ, Thy Son, Who
liveth and reigneth with Thee in the union of the
Holy Ghost, one God, world without end. Amen.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Let Us Pray.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Preserve us, O Lord, we beseech Thee, from
all dangers of body and soul; and by the intercession
of the glorious and blessed Mary, ever
virgin. Mother of God, of the blessed apostles Peter
<pb n='559'/><anchor id='Pg559'/>
and Paul, of St. Joseph, and all the saints, grant us,
in Thy mercy, health and peace, that, adversities
and errors being removed, Thy Church may serve
Thee with a pure and undisturbed devotion.
Through, etc.
</p>

<p>
Epistle.
</p>

<p>
(Rom. xi. 33-36.)
</p>

<p>
O the depth of the riches of the wisdom and
knowledge of God! How incomprehensible
are His judgments, and how unsearchable His ways!
For who hath known the mind of the Lord? Or
who hath been His counsellor? Or who hath first
given to Him, and recompense shall be made him.
For of Him, and by Him, and in Him are all things.
To Him be glory forever.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Deo gratias!
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Thanks be to God!)
</p>

<p>
Gradual.
</p>

<p>
(Daniel iii.)
</p>

<p>
Blessed art Thou, O Lord, Who beholdest the
deep, and sittest on the cherubim.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Blessed art Thou, O Lord, in the firmament
of heaven, and worthy of praise forever. Alleluia,
Alleluia!
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
At solemn Mass the deacon places the book of Gospels on
the altar, and the celebrant blesses the incense. The deacon,
with joined hands, says:
</quote>

<p>
Munda cor meum, ac
labia mea, omnipotens
Deus, qui labia
Isaiæ prophetæ calculo
mundasti ignito: ita me
tua grata miseratione dignare
mundare, ut sanctum
Evangelium tuum digne
valeam nuntiare. Per
Christum Dominum nostrum.
Amen.
</p>

<p>
(Cleanse my heart and
my lips, O almighty
God, Who didst
cleanse the lips of the
prophet Isaias with a
<pb n='560'/><anchor id='Pg560'/>
burning coal: vouchsafe
so to cleanse me by Thy
gracious mercy that I
may be able worthily to
proclaim Thy holy Gospel.
Through Christ Our
Lord. Amen.)
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Then he takes the book from the altar, and, kneeling before
the priest, asks his blessing. The priest answers:
</quote>

<p>
Dominus sit in corde
tuo et in labiis
tuis, ut digne et competenter
annunties Evangelium
suum. Amen.
</p>

<p>
(The Lord be in thy
heart and on thy
lips, that thou mayest
worthily and in becoming
manner announce His
Gospel. Amen.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Dominus vobiscum.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> The Lord be with
you.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Et cum spiritu tuo.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And with thy spirit.)
</p>

<p>
Initium (vel sequentia)
sancti Evangelii secundum
N.
</p>

<p>
(The beginning (or continuation)
of the holy
Gospel according to N.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Gloria tibi, Domine.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Glory be to Thee,
O Lord.)
</p>

<p>
Gospel.
</p>

<p>
(Matt. xxviii.)
</p>

<p>
At that time, Jesus said to His disciples: All
power is given to Me in heaven and on earth.
Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them
in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of
the Holy Ghost: teaching them to observe all things
whatsoever I have commanded you: and behold I
<pb n='561'/><anchor id='Pg561'/>
am with you all days, even to the consummation of
the world.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Laus tibi, Christe!
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Praise be to Thee,
O Christ!)
</p>

<p>
The Nicene Creed.
</p>

<p>
Credo in unum Deum,
Patrem omnipotentem,
factorem cœli et terræ,
visibilium omnium, et
invisibilium. Et in unum
Dominum Jesum Christum,
Filium Dei unigenitum:
et ex Patre natum
ante omnia sæcula: Deum
de Deo, lumen de lumine,
Deum verum de
Deo vero: genitum non
factum, consubstantialem
Patri, per quem omnia
facta sunt. Qui propter
nos homines, et propter
nostram salutem descendit
de cœlis. Et incarnatus
est de Spiritu Sancto, ex
Maria Virgine: <hi rend='italic'>et homo
factus est</hi>. Crucifixus etiam
pro nobis, sub Pontio
Pilato passus, et sepultus
est. Et resurrexit tertia
die, secundum scripturas;
et ascendit in cœlum, sedet
ad dexteram Patris; et
iterum venturus est cum
gloria, judicare vivos et
mortuos; cujus regni non
erit finis. Et in Spiritum
Sanctum, Dominum et
vivificantem, qui ex Patre
Filioque procedit; qui
cum Patre et Filio simul
adoratur et conglorificatur;
qui locutus est per
prophetas. Et unam sanctam
Catholicam et Apostolicam
Ecclesiam. Confiteor
unum Baptisma in
remissionem peccatorum.
Et expecto resurrectionem
mortuorum, et vitam venturi
sæculi. Amen.
</p>

<p>
(I believe in one God,
the Father almighty,
Maker of heaven
and earth, and of all
things visible and invisible.
And in one Lord
Jesus Christ, the only-begotten
Son of God, and
born of the Father before
all ages: God of God,
light of light, true God of
true God; begotten, not
made; consubstantial to
the Father, by Whom all
things were made. Who
for us men, and for our
salvation, came down
from heaven, and became
incarnate by the Holy
Ghost, of the Virgin
Mary, <hi rend='italic'>and was made man</hi>.
He was crucified also for
us, suffered under Pontius
Pilate, and was
buried. And the third
day He arose again, according
to the Scriptures;
and ascended into heaven,
<pb n='562'/><anchor id='Pg562'/>
sitteth at the right hand of
the Father; and He is to
come again with glory to
judge both the living and
the dead; of Whose kingdom
there shall be no
end. And in the Holy
Ghost, the Lord and giver
of life, Who proceedeth
from the Father and the
Son; Who together with
the Father and the Son is
adored and glorified; Who
spoke by the prophets.
And one holy Catholic
and Apostolic Church. I
confess one Baptism for
the remission of sins, and
I expect the resurrection
of the dead, and the life
of the world to come.
Amen.)
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Turning to the people the priest says:
</quote>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Dominus vobiscum.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> The Lord be with
you.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Et cum spiritu tuo.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And with thy spirit.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Oremus.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Let us pray.)
</p>

<p>
Offertory.
</p>

<p>
Blessed be God the Father, and the only-begotten
Son of God, as likewise the Holy Ghost,
for He has shown mercy to us.
</p>

<pb n='563'/><anchor id='Pg563'/>

<quote rend='display'>
Offering up the Host, the priest says:
</quote>

<p>
Suscipe, sancte Pater,
omnipotens, æterne
Deus, hanc immaculatam
Hostiam, quam ego
indignus famulus tuus offero
tibi, Deo meo vivo
et vero, pro innumerabilibus
peccatis, et offensionibus
et negligentiis
meis, et pro omnibus circumstantibus;
sed et pro
omnibus fidelibus Christianis,
vivis atque defunctis;
ut mihi et illis proficiat
ad salutem, in vitam
æternam. Amen.
</p>

<p>
(Accept, O holy Father,
almighty and eternal
God, this unspotted
Host, which I, Thy unworthy
servant, offer unto
Thee, my living and true
God, for my innumerable
sins, offences, and negligences,
and for all here
present; as also for all
faithful Christians, both
living and dead; that it
may avail both me and
them unto life everlasting.
Amen.)
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Pouring the water and wine into the chalice, he says:
</quote>

<p>
Deus, qui humanæ
substantiæ dignitatem
mirabiliter condidisti,
et mirabilius reformasti:
da nobis per hujus
aquæ et vini mysterium,
ejus divinitatis esse consortes,
qui humanitatis
nostræ fieri dignatus est
particeps, Jesus Christus,
Filius tuus, Dominus noster:
qui tecum vivit et
regnat in unitate Spiritus
Sancti, Deus, per omnia
sæcula sæculorum.
Amen.
</p>

<p>
(O God, Who in creating
human nature
hast wonderfully dignified
it, and still more wonderfully
reformed it: grant
that by the mystery of this
water and wine we may be
made partakers of His
divine nature Who vouchsafed
to become partaker
of our human nature:
Jesus Christ, Thy Son,
Our Lord, Who liveth and
reigneth with Thee in the
unity, etc.)
</p>

<pb n='564'/><anchor id='Pg564'/>

<quote rend='display'>
Offering the chalice, the priest says:
</quote>

<p>
Offerimus tibi, Domine,
calicem salutaris,
tuam deprecantes
clementiam, ut in conspectu
divinæ majestatis
tuæ, pro nostra et totius
mundi salute cum odore
suavitatis ascendat.
Amen.
</p>

<p>
(We offer unto Thee, O
Lord, the chalice
of salvation, beseeching
Thy clemency that it may
ascend before Thy divine
majesty as a sweet odor
for our salvation and for
that of the whole world.
Amen.)
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Bowing down, the priest says:
</quote>

<p>
In spiritu humilitatis
et in animo contrito
suscipiamur a te, Domine;
et sic fiat sacrificium
nostrum in conspectu
tuo hodie, ut placeat tibi,
Domine Deus.
</p>

<p>
(Accept us, O Lord, in
the spirit of humility
and contrition of heart;
and grant that the sacrifice
we offer in Thy sight this
day may be pleasing to
Thee, O Lord God.)
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Blessing the Host and chalice, the priest says:
</quote>

<p>
Veni, sanctificator,
omnipotens, æterne
Deus, et benedic hoc
sacrificium tuo sancto
nomini præparatum.
</p>

<p>
(Come, O almighty and
eternal God, the
sanctifier, and bless this
sacrifice, prepared for the
glory of Thy holy name.)
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Going to the Epistle side of the altar, the priest washes his
hands, and recites the following verses of
</quote>

<p>
Psalm XXV.
</p>

<p>
Lavabo inter innocentes
manus meas;
et circumdabo altare tuum,
Domine.
</p>

<p>
(I will wash my hands
among the innocent;
and will compass Thy
altar, O Lord.)
</p>

<p>
Ut audiam vocem laudis; et enarrem universa
mirabilia tua.
</p>

<p>
(That I may hear the
voice of Thy praise, and
tell of all Thy wondrous
works.)
</p>

<pb n='565'/><anchor id='Pg565'/>

<p>
Domine, dilexi decorem
domus tuæ, et locum
habitationis gloriæ tuæ.
</p>

<p>
(I have loved, O Lord,
the beauty of Thy house,
and the place where Thy
glory dwelleth.)
</p>

<p>
Ne perdas cum impiis
Deus, animam meam, et
cum viris sanguinum
vitam meam.
</p>

<p>
(Take not away my soul
with the wicked, nor my
life with bloody men.)
</p>

<p>
In quorum manibus iniquitates
sunt: dextera
eorum repleta est muneribus.
</p>

<p>
(In whose hands are iniquities;
their right hand
is filled with gifts.)
</p>

<p>
Ego autem in innocentia
mea ingressus sum:
redime me, et miserere
mei.
</p>

<p>
(But I have walked in
my innocence: redeem
me, and have mercy on
me.)
</p>

<p>
Pes meus stetit in directo:
in ecclesiis benedicam
te, Domine.
</p>

<p>
(My foot has stood in
the direct way; in the
churches I will bless Thee,
O Lord.)
</p>

<p>
Gloria Patri, etc.
</p>

<p>
(Glory be to the Father,
etc.)
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Returning and bowing before the middle of the altar, he
says:
</quote>

<p>
Suscipe, sancta Trinitas,
hanc oblationem,
quam tibi offerimus
ob memoriam Passionis,
resurrectionis, et
ascensionis Jesu Christi
Domini nostri, et in honorem beatæ Mariæ semper
virginis, et beati Joannis
Baptistæ, et sanctorum
apostolorum Petri et
Pauli, et istorum, et omnium
sanctorum; ut illis
proficiat ad honorem, nobis
autem ad salutem; et
illi pro nobis intercedere
dignentur in cœlis, quorum
memoriam agimus in
terris. Per eundem
Christum Dominum nostrum.
Amen.
</p>

<p>
(Receive, O Holy
Trinity, this oblation,
which we make to
Thee in memory of the
Passion, resurrection, and
ascension of Our Lord
Jesus Christ, and in honor
<pb n='566'/><anchor id='Pg566'/>
of the blessed Mary, ever
virgin, of blessed John
Baptist, the holy apostles
Peter and Paul, and of all
the saints; that it may be
available to their honor
and our salvation; and
that they may vouchsafe
to intercede for us in
heaven whose memory we
celebrate on earth.
Through the same Christ
Our Lord. Amen.)
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Turning towards the people, he says:
</quote>

<p>
Orate, fratres, ut
meum ac vestrum
sacrificium acceptabile fiat
apud Deum Patrem omnipotentem.
</p>

<p>
(Brethren, pray that
my sacrifice and
yours may be acceptable
to God the Father almighty.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Suscipiat Dominus
sacrificium de manibus
tuis ad laudem et gloriam
nominis sui, ad utilitatem
quoque nostram, totiusque
Ecclesiæ suæ sanctæ.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> May the Lord receive
the sacrifice from
thy hands, to the praise
and glory of His name,
to our benefit, and to that
of all His holy Church.)
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
The priest answers in a low voice, Amen. He then reads:
</quote>

<p>
The Secret Prayers.
</p>

<p>
Sanctify, we beseech Thee, O Lord Our God, by
the invocation of Thy holy name, the victim
of this oblation; and by it make us ourselves an
eternal offering to Thee. Through, etc.
</p>

<pb n='567'/><anchor id='Pg567'/>

<p>
Graciously hear us, O God Our Saviour, that by
the virtue of this sacrament Thou mayest defend us
from all enemies, of both soul and body; grant us
grace in this life and glory in the next. Who livest
and reignest with God the Father, in the unity of
the Holy Ghost.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
He concludes by saying aloud:
</quote>

<p>
Per omnia sæcula sæculorum.
</p>

<p>
(World without end.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Dominus vobiscum.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> The Lord be with
you.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Et cum spiritu tuo.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And with thy spirit.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Sursum corda.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Lift up your hearts.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Habemus ad Dominum.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> We have lifted them
up to the Lord.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Gratias agamus Domino
Deo nostro.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Let us give thanks
to the Lord Our God.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Dignum et justum
est.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> It is meet and just.)
</p>

<p>
The Preface.
</p>

<p>
Vere dignum et justum
est, æquum et salutare,
nos tibi semper, et
ubique gratias agere,
Domine sancte, Pater omnipotens,
æterne Deus.
Qui cum unigenito Filio
tuo et Spiritu Sancto unus
es Deus, unus es Dominus:
non in unius singularitate
personæ, sed in unius
trinitate substantiæ. Quod
enim de tua gloria, revelante
te, credimus, hoc de
Filio tuo, hoc de Spiritu
Sancto, sine differentia
discretionis sentimus. Ut
in confessione veræ sempiternæque
Deitatis, et in
Personis proprietas, et in
essentia unitas, et in majestate
adoretur æqualitas.
Quam laudant angeli atque
archangeli, cherubim quoque
ac seraphim, qui non
cessant clamare quotidie,
una voce dicentes:
</p>

<p>
(It is truly meet and
just, right and available
to salvation, that we
should always and in all
places give thanks to Thee,
O holy Lord, Father
almighty, eternal God.
Who together with Thy
only-begotten Son and the
Holy Ghost art one God
and one Lord: not in a
singularity of one person,
but in a trinity of one
substance. For what we
believe of Thy glory, as
Thou hast revealed the
same, we believe of Thy
Son and of the Holy
Ghost, without any difference
or distinction. So
that in confession of the
true and eternal Deity we
adore a distinction in the
persons, and unity in the
essence, and an equality
in the majesty. Whom
the angels and archangels,
the cherubim also and
seraphim, praise, and
cease not daily to cry out
with one voice, saying:)
</p>

<pb n='568'/><anchor id='Pg568'/>

<p>
Sanctus, sanctus, sanctus,
Dominus Deus
Sabaoth. Pleni sunt cœli
et terra gloria tua. Hosanna
in excelsis.
</p>

<p>
(Holy, holy, holy, Lord
God of hosts.
Heaven and earth are full
of Thy glory. Hosanna
in the highest.)
</p>

<p>
Benedictus qui venit in
nomine Domini. Hosanna
in excelsis.
</p>

<p>
(Blessed is He that
cometh in the name of
the Lord. Hosanna in
the highest.)
</p>

<p>
The Canon of the Mass.
</p>

<p>
Te igitur, clementissime
Pater, per Jesum
Christum Filium tuum
Dominum nostrum, supplices
rogamus ac petimus,
uti accepta habeas, et
benedicas, hæc dona, hæc
munera, hæc sancta sacrificia
illibata, imprimis
quæ tibi offerimus pro
Ecclesia tua sancta Catholica,
quam pacificare,
custodire, adunare, et regere
digneris toto orbe
terrarum, una cum famulo
tuo Papa nostro N., et
Antistite nostro N., et
omnibus orthodoxis, atque
Catholicæ et Apostolicæ
fidei cultoribus.
</p>

<p>
(We therefore humbly
pray and beseech
<pb n='569'/><anchor id='Pg569'/>
Thee, most merciful Father,
through Jesus Christ,
Thy Son, Our Lord, to
accept and bless these
gifts, these presents, these
holy unspotted sacrifices,
which, in the first place,
we offer Thee for Thy
holy Catholic Church, to
which vouchsafe to grant
peace, as also to preserve,
unite, and govern it
throughout the world; together
with Thy servant
N., our Pope, and our
bishop N., as also all
orthodox believers and
professors of the Catholic
and apostolic faith.)
</p>

<p>
Commemoration of the Living.
</p>

<p>
Memento, Domine,
famulorum famularumque
tuarum, N. et
N. Et omnium circumstantium,
quorum tibi
fides cognita est et nota
devotio, pro quibus tibi
offerimus, vel qui tibi
offerunt hoc sacrificium
laudis, pro se, suisque
omnibus, pro redemptione
animarum suarum,
pro spe salutis et incolumitatis suæ, tibique reddunt
vota sua, æterno Deo
vivi et vero.

</p>

<p>
(Remember, O Lord,
Thy servants of
both sexes, N. and N.
And all here present
whose faith and devotion
are known unto Thee,
for whom we offer, or
who offer up to Thee,
this sacrifice of praise, for
themselves, their families,
and friends, for the redemption
of their souls,
for the health and salvation they hope for, and
for which they now pay
their vows to Thee, the
eternal, living, and true
God.)
</p>

<pb n='570'/><anchor id='Pg570'/>

<p>
Communicantes, et
memoriam venerantes,
imprimis gloriosæ semper
Virginis Mariæ, Genitricis
Dei et Domini nostri
Jesu Christi: sed et
beatorum apostolorum ac
martyrum tuorum, Petri
et Pauli, Andreæ, Jacobi,
Joannis, Thomæ, Jacobi,
Philippi, Bartholomæi,
Matthæi, Simonis et
Thaddæi: Lini, Cleti,
Clementis, Xysti, Cornelii,
Cypriani, Laurentii,
Chrysogoni, Joannis et
Pauli, Cosmæ et Damiani,
et omnium sanctorum
tuorum: quorum meritis
precibusque concedas, ut
in omnibus protectionis
tuæ muniamur auxilio.
Per eundem Christum
Dominum nostrum.
Amen.
</p>

<p>
(Communicating with,
and honoring in the first
place, the memory of the
ever-glorious Virgin
Mary, Mother of Our
Lord and God, Jesus
Christ, as also of the
blessed apostles and martyrs,
Peter and Paul,
Andrew, James, John,
Thomas, James, Philip,
Bartholomew, Matthew,
Simon, and Thaddeus:
Linus, Cletus, Clement,
Xystus, Cornelius, Cyprian,
Lawrence, Chrysogonus,
John and Paul,
Cosmas and Damian, and
of all Thy saints, through
whose merits and prayers
grant that we may be always
defended by the
help of Thy protection.
Through the same Christ
Our Lord. Amen.)
</p>

<p>
Hanc igitur oblationem
servitutis nostræ,
sed et cunctæ familiæ tuæ,
quæsumus, Domine, ut
placatus accipias; diesque
nostros in tua pace disponas,
atque ab æterna damnatione
nos eripi, et in
electorum tuorum jubeas
grege numerari. Per
Christum Dominum nostrum.
Amen.
</p>

<p>
(We therefore beseech
Thee, O Lord, graciously
to accept this oblation of our servitude, as
also of Thy whole family,
and to dispose of our days
in Thy peace; preserve
us from eternal damnation,
and rank us in the
number of Thine elect.
Through Christ Our Lord.
Amen.)
</p>

<pb n='571'/><anchor id='Pg571'/>

<p>
Quam oblationem tu,
Deus, in omnibus, quæsumus,
benedictam, adscriptam,
ratam, rationabilem,
acceptabilemque facere
digneris: ut nobis corpus
et sanguis fiat dilectissimi
Filii tui Domini nostri
Jesu Christi.
</p>

<p>
(Which oblation to
Thou, O God, vouchsafe
in all respects to bless, approve,
ratify, and accept,
that it may be made for
us the body and blood of
Thy most beloved Son,
Jesus Christ Our Lord.)
</p>

<p>
The Consecration.
</p>

<p>
Qui pridie quam pateretur, accepit panem in
sanctas ac venerabiles manus suas, et elevatis
oculis in cœlum, ad te Deum Patrem suum omnipotentem,
tibi gratias agens, benedixit, fregit, deditque
discipulis suis, dicens: Accipite, et manducate ex
hoc omnes: Hoc est enim corpus meum.
</p>

<p>
Simili modo postquam cœnatum est, accipiens et
hunc præclarum calicem in sanctas ac venerabiles
manus suas, item tibi gratias agens, benedixit, deditque
discipulis suis, dicens: Accipite, et bibite ex eo
omnes: Hic est enim calix sanguinis mei, novi et
æterni testamenti: mysterium fidei: qui pro vobis
et pro multis effundetur in remissionem peccatorum.
<pb n='572'/><anchor id='Pg572'/>
Hæc quotiescunque feceritis, in mei memoriam facietis.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
After the consecration and elevation the priest proceeds:
</quote>

<p>
Unde et memores, Domine,
nos servi tui,
sed et plebs tua sancta,
ejusdem Christi Filii tui
Domini nostri tam beatæ
Passionis, necnon et ab
inferis resurrectionis, sed
et in cœlo gloriosæ ascensionis,
offerimus præclaræ
majestati tuæ, de tuis
donis ac datis, Hostiam
puram, Hostiam sanctam,
Hostiam immaculatam,
panem sanctum vitæ
æternæ, et calicem salutis
perpetuæ.
</p>

<p>
(Wherefore, O Lord,
we, Thy servants,
as also Thy holy people,
calling to mind the
blessed Passion of the
same Christ, Thy Son,
Our Lord, His resurrection
from the dead and
admirable ascension into
heaven, offer unto Thy
most excellent majesty,
of Thy gifts bestowed, a
pure Host, a holy Host,
an unspotted Host, the
holy bread of eternal life,
and chalice of everlasting
salvation.)
</p>

<p>
Supra quæ propitio ac
sereno vultu respicere digneris,
et accepta habere,
sicuti accepta habere dignatus
es munera pueri tui
justi Abel, et sacrificium
Patriarchæ nostri Abrahæ,
et quod tibi obtulit summus
sacerdos tuus Melchisedech,
sanctum sacrificium
immaculatam,
hostiam.
</p>

<p>
(Upon which vouchsafe
to look with a propitious
and serene countenance,
and to accept them, as
Thou wert graciously
pleased to accept the gifts
of Thy just servant Abel,
and the sacrifice of our
patriarch Abraham, and
that which Thy high
priest Melchisedech offered
to Thee, a holy sacrifice
and an unspotted
victim.)
</p>

<pb n='573'/><anchor id='Pg573'/>

<p>
Supplices te rogamus,
omnipotens Deus, jube
hæc perferri per manus
sancti angeli tui in sublime
altare tuum, in conspectu
divinæ majestatis
tuæ, ut quotquot ex hac
altaris participatione,
sacro-sanctum Filii tui
corpus et sanguinem
sumpserimus, omni benedictione
cœlesti, et gratia
repleamur. Per eundem
Christum Dominum nostrum.
Amen.
</p>

<p>
(Most humbly do we beseech
Thee, almighty
God, to command these
things to be carried by
the hands of Thy holy
angel to the altar on high,
in sight of Thy divine
majesty, that as many as
shall partake of the most
sacred body and blood
of Thy Son at this altar
may be filled with every
heavenly grace and blessing.
Through the same
Christ Our Lord. Amen.)
</p>

<p>
Commemoration of the Dead.
</p>

<p>
Memento etiam, Domine,
famulorum
famularumque tuarum N.
et N., qui nos præcesserunt
cum signo fidei, et
dormiunt in somno pacis.
</p>

<p>
(Be mindful, O Lord,
of Thy servants N.
and N., who are gone before
us with the sign of
faith, and rest in the sleep
of peace.)
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Here the priest, with hands joined, prays for such of the
dead as he wishes to pray for in particular. Then, extending
his hands, he continues:
</quote>

<p>
Ipsis, Domine, et omnibus
in Christo quiescentibus,
locum refrigerii,
lucis et pacis, ut indulgeas,
deprecamur. Per
eundem Christum Dominum
nostrum. Amen.
</p>

<p>
(To these, O Lord, and
and to all that sleep in
Christ, grant, we beseech
Thee, a place of refreshment,
light, and peace.
Through the same Christ
Our Lord. Amen.)
</p>

<pb n='574'/><anchor id='Pg574'/>

<p>
Nobis quoque, peccatoribus,
famulis tuis, de
multitudine miserationum
tuarum sperantibus, partem
aliquam et societatem
donare digneris cum tuis
sanctis apostolis et martyribus:
cum Joanne,
Stephano, Matthia, Barnaba,
Ignatio, Alexandro,
Marcellino, Petro, Felicitate,
Perpetua, Agatha,
Lucia, Agnete, Cæcilia,
Anastasia, et omnibus
sanctis tuis: intra quorum
nos consortium, non
æstimator meriti, sed
veniæ, quæsumus, largitor
admitte. Per Christum
Dominum nostrum.
</p>

<p>
(Also to us sinners, Thy
servants, confiding in the
multitude of Thy mercies,
vouchsafe to grant some
part and fellowship with
Thy holy apostles and
martyrs: with John,
Stephen, Matthias, Barnabas,
Ignatius, Alexander,
Marcellinus, Peter,
Felicitas, Perpetua,
Agatha, Lucia, Agnes,
Cecilia, Anastasia, and
all Thy saints; into whose
company we beseech Thee
to admit us, not in consideration
of our merit,
but of Thy own pardon.
Through Christ Our
Lord.)
</p>

<p>
Per quem hæc omnia,
Domine, semper bona
creas, sanctificas, vivificas,
benedicis et præstas
nobis.
</p>

<p>
(By Whom, O Lord,
Thou dost always create,
bless, quicken, and give
us all these good things,)
</p>

<p>
Per ipsum, et cum ipso,
et in ipso est tibi, Deo
Patri omnipotenti, in
unitate Spiritus Sancti,
omnis honor et gloria.
</p>

<p>
(By Him, and with
Him, and in Him, is to
Thee, God the Father
almighty, in the unity
of the Holy Ghost, all
honor and glory.)
</p>

<p>
Per omnia sæcula
sæculorum.
</p>

<p>
(Forever and ever.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.)
</p>

<pb n='575'/><anchor id='Pg575'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Oremus.</hi>
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>Let us pray.</hi>)
</p>

<p>
The Pater Noster.
</p>

<p>
Præceptis salutaribus
moniti et divina institutione
formati, audemus
dicere:
</p>

<p>
(Instructed by Thy
saving precepts, and
following Thy divine directions,
we presume to
say:)
</p>

<p>
Pater noster, qui es in
cœlis, sanctificetur nomen
tuum; adveniat regnum
tuum; fiat voluntas tua
sicut in cœlo et in terra.
Panem nostrum quotidianum
da nobis hodie; et
dimitte nobis debita nostra,
sicut et nos dimittimus
debitoribus nostris.
Et ne nos inducas in tentationem.
</p>

<p>
(Our Father, Who art
in heaven, hallowed be
Thy name; Thy kingdom
come; Thy will be done
on earth as it is in heaven.
Give us this day our daily
bread; and forgive us our
trespasses, as we forgive
them that trespass against
us. And lead us not into
temptation.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Sed libera nos a
malo.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> But deliver us from
evil.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>S.</hi> Amen.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>P.</hi> Amen.)
</p>

<p>
Libera nos, quæsumus,
Domine, ab omnibus malis,
præteritis, præsentibus
et futuris: et intercedente
beata et gloriosa
semper virgine Dei Genitrice
Maria, cum beatis
apostolis tuis Petro et
Paulo, atque Andrea, et
omnibus sanctis, da propitius
pacem in diebus
nostris: ut ope misericordiæ
tuæ adjuti, et a
peccato simus semper liberi,
et ab omni perturbatione
securi. Per eundem
Dominum nostrum
Jesum Christum Filium
tuum, qui tecum vivit et
regnat in unitate Spiritus
Sancti Deus: per omnia
sæcula sæculorum.
</p>

<p>
(Deliver us, we beseech
Thee, O Lord, from all
evils, past, present, and
to come: and by the intercession
of the blessed
and glorious Mary, ever
virgin, Mother of God,
and of the blessed apostles
Peter and Paul, and Andrew,
and of all the saints,
mercifully grant peace in
<pb n='576'/><anchor id='Pg576'/>
our days, that through
the assistance of Thy
mercy we may be always
free from sin, and secure
from all disturbance.
Through the same Jesus
Christ, Thy Son, Our
Lord, Who with Thee and
the Holy Ghost liveth
and reigneth God: world
without end.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Pax Domini sit
semper vobiscum.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> The peace of the
Lord be always with you.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Et cum spiritu tuo.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And with thy spirit.)
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
The priest puts a particle of the Host into the chalice,
saying:
</quote>

<p>
Hæc commixtio et
consecratio corporis
et sanguinis Domini
nostri Jesu Christi fiat accipientibus
nobis in vitam
æternam. Amen.
</p>

<p>
(May this mixture and
consecration of the
body and blood of Our
Lord Jesus Christ be to us
who receive it effectual
to eternal life. Amen.)
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
The priest strikes his breast three times, saying:
</quote>

<p>
Agnus Dei, qui tollis
peccata mundi:
miserere nobis.
</p>

<p>
(Lamb of God, Who
takest away the
sins of the world: have
mercy on us.)
</p>

<p>
Agnus Dei, qui tollis
peccata mundi: miserere
nobis.
</p>

<p>
(Lamb of God, Who
takest away the sins of
the world: have mercy on
us.)
</p>

<p>
Agnus Dei, qui tollis
peccata mundi: dona
nobis pacem.
</p>

<p>
(Lamb of God, Who
<pb n='577'/><anchor id='Pg577'/>
takest away the sins of
the world: give us peace.)
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
In Masses of <hi rend='italic'>Requiem</hi>, instead of <hi rend='italic'>Miserere nobis</hi> is said:
<hi rend='italic'>Dona eis requiem, Grant them rest</hi>; and instead of <hi rend='italic'>Dona nobis
pacem</hi> is said: <hi rend='italic'>Dona eis requiem sempiternam, Grant them
eternal rest</hi>. The priest does not strike his breast, nor does he
say the first of the following prayers:
</quote>

<p>
Domine Jesu Christe,
qui dixisti apostolis
tuis: Pacem relinquo
vobis, pacem meam do
vobis, ne respicias peccata
mea, sed fidem Ecclesiæ
tuæ, eamque secundum
voluntatem tuam
pacificare et coadunare
digneris. Qui vivis et
regnas, Deus, per omnia
sæcula sæculorum. Amen.
</p>

<p>
(Lord Jesus Christ,
Who saidst to Thy
apostles, I leave you peace,
I give you My peace: regard
not my sins, but the
faith of Thy Church, and
grant her that peace and
unity which is agreeable
to Thy will. Who livest
and reignest forever and
ever. Amen.)
</p>

<p>
Domine Jesu Christe,
Fili Dei vivi, qui ex voluntate
Patris, co-operante
Spiritu Sancto, per mortem
tuam mundum vivificasti,
libera me per hoc
sacro-sanctum corpus et
sanguinem tuum ab omnibus
iniquitatibus meis, et
universis malis: et fac me
tuis semper inhærere mandatis,
et a te nunquam
separari permittas. Qui
cum eodem Deo Patre et
Spiritu Sancto vivis et
regnas, Deus, in sæcula
sæculorum. Amen.
</p>

<p>
(Lord Jesus Christ, Son
of the living God, Who,
according to the will of
Thy Father, hast by Thy
death, through the cooperation
of the Holy
Ghost, given life to the
world: deliver me by this,
Thy most sacred body and
blood from all my iniquities,
and from all evils;
and make me always adhere
to Thy commandments;
and never suffer
me to be separated from
Thee. Who livest and
reignest with God the
Father in the unity of the
Holy Ghost, God, forever
and ever. Amen.)
</p>

<pb n='578'/><anchor id='Pg578'/>

<p>
Perceptio corporis tui,
Domine Jesu Christe, quod
ego indignus sumere præsumo,
non mihi proveniat
in judicium et condemnationem,
sed pro tua pietate
prosit mihi ad tutamentum
mentis et corporis,
et ad medelam percipiendam.
Qui vivis et
regnas cum Deo Patre in
unitate Spiritus Sancti,
Deus, per omnia sæcula
sæculorum. Amen.
</p>

<p>
(Grant that the participation
of Thy body, O
Lord Jesus Christ, which
I, though unworthy, presume
to receive, may not
turn to my judgment
and condemnation, but
through Thy mercy be a
safeguard and remedy,
both to soul and body.
Who livest and reignest
with God the Father in
the unity of the Holy
Ghost, God, forever and
ever. Amen.)
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Taking the Host in his hands, and making a genuflection,
he says:
</quote>

<p>
Panem cœlestem accipiam,
et nomen Domini
invocabo.
</p>

<p>
(I will take the heavenly
bread, and call on the
name of the Lord.)
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Striking his breast with humility and devotion, the priest
says thrice:
</quote>

<p>
Domine, non sum dignus
ut intres sub
tectum meum; sed tantum
dic verbo, et sanabitur
anima mea.
</p>

<p>
(Lord, I am not worthy
that Thou
shouldst enter under my
roof: say but the word,
and my soul shall be
healed.)
</p>

<pb n='579'/><anchor id='Pg579'/>

<quote rend='display'>
Before receiving the sacred Host he says:
</quote>

<p>
Corpus Domini nostri
Jesu Christi custodiat
animam meam in
vitam æternam. Amen.
</p>

<p>
(May the body of Our
Lord Jesus Christ
preserve my soul to life
everlasting. Amen.)
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
After receiving the sacred Host:
</quote>

<p>
Quid retribuam Domino
pro omnibus quæ
retribuit mihi? Calicem
salutaris accipiam, et nomen
Domini invocabo.
Laudans invocabo Dominum,
et ab inimicis meis
salvus ero.
</p>

<p>
(What return shall I
make the Lord
for all He has given to me?
I will take the chalice of
salvation, and call upon
the name of the Lord.
Praising, I will call upon
the Lord, and shall be
saved from my enemies.)
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Before receiving the sacred blood:
</quote>

<p>
Sanguis Domini nostri
Jesu Christi custodiat
animam meam in
vitam æternam. Amen.
</p>

<p>
(May the blood of Our
Lord Jesus Christ
preserve my soul to life
everlasting. Amen.)
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
After receiving the sacred blood:
</quote>

<p>
Quod ore sumpsimus,
Domine, pura
mente capiamus; et de
munere temporali fiat
nobis remedium sempiternum.
</p>

<p>
(Grant, O Lord, that
what we have taken
with our mouth we may
receive with a pure mind;
that of a temporal gift it
may become to us an eternal
remedy.)
</p>

<pb n='580'/><anchor id='Pg580'/>

<quote rend='display'>
At the ablution:
</quote>

<p>
Corpus tuum, Domine,
quod sumpsi,
et sanguis quem potavi,
adhæreat visceribus meis:
et præsta, ut in me non remaneat
scelerum macula,
quem pura et sancta refecerunt
sacramenta. Qui
vivis et regnas in sæcula
sæculorum. Amen.
</p>

<p>
(May Thy body, O Lord,
which I have received,
and Thy blood,
which I drank, cleave to
my bowels; and grant that
no stain of sin may remain
in me, who have been refreshed
with pure and holy
sacraments. Who livest
and reignest forever.
Amen.)
</p>

<p>
The Post Communion.
</p>

<p>
We bless the God of heaven, and we will praise
Him in the sight of all the living: because
He hath shown us His mercy.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Dominus vobiscum.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> The Lord be with
you.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Et cum spiritu tuo.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And with thy spirit.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Let Us Pray.</hi>
</p>

<p>
May the receiving of this sacrament, O Lord, Our
God, avail to the salvation of body and soul,
together with the confession of an everlasting Holy
Trinity, and of the undivided unity thereof.
Through Our Lord Jesus Christ, Thy Son, Who
liveth and reigneth with Thee in the unity of the
Holy Ghost, world without end. Amen.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Let Us Pray.</hi>
</p>

<p>
May the oblation of this divine sacrament, we
beseech Thee, O Lord, both cleanse and defend
<pb n='581'/><anchor id='Pg581'/>
us; and by the intercession of the blessed Mary,
the virgin Mother of God, of St. Joseph, of the
blessed apostles Peter and Paul, and of all the saints,
free us from all sin, and deliver us from all adversity.
Through the same Jesus Christ, Thy Son, Our Lord,
Who liveth and reigneth with Thee in the unity of
the Holy Ghost, world without end. Amen.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Dominus vobiscum.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> The Lord be with
you.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Et cum spiritu tuo.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And with thy spirit.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Ite, missa est.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Go, you are dismissed.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Deo gratias.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Thanks be to God.)
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
When the <hi rend='italic'>Gloria in excelsis</hi> has been omitted:
</quote>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Benedicamus Domino.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Let us praise the
Lord.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Deo gratias.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Thanks be to God.)
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
In Masses of <hi rend='italic'>Requiem</hi>:
</quote>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Requiescant in pace.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> May they rest in
peace.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.)
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Before the blessing:
</quote>

<p>
Placeat tibi sancta
Trinitas, obsequium
servitutis meæ; et
præsta, ut sacrificium
quod oculis tuæ majestatis
indignus obtuli, tibi
sit acceptabile, mihique
et omnibus pro quibus
illud obtuli sit, te miserante,
propitiabile. Per
Christum Dominum nostrum.
Amen.
</p>

<p>
(Let the performance
of my homage be
pleasing to Thee, O Holy
Trinity; and grant that
the sacrifice which I, unworthy
as I am, have offered
up in the sight of
Thy majesty, may be acceptable
<pb n='582'/><anchor id='Pg582'/>
to Thee, and by
Thy mercy be a propitiation
for me and for all for
whom I have offered it.
Through Christ Our Lord.
Amen.)
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
The blessing, which is not given in Masses of <hi rend='italic'>Requiem</hi>:
</quote>

<p>
Benedicat vos omnipotens
Deus, Pater,
et Filius, et Spiritus Sanctus.
</p>

<p>
(May almighty God,
the Father, Son,
and Holy Ghost, bless
you.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.)
</p>

<p>
The Last Gospel.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Dominus vobiscum.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> The Lord be with
you.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Et cum spiritu tuo.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And with thy spirit.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>S.</hi> Initium sancti
Evangelii secundum Joannem.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>P.</hi> The beginning of
the Gospel according to
St. John.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Gloria tibi, Domine.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Glory be to Thee,
O Lord.)
</p>

<p>
In principio erat Verbum,
et Verbum
erat apud Deum, et Deus
erat Verbum. Hoc erat
in principio apud Deum.
Omnia per ipsum facta
sunt, et sine ipso factum
est nihil quod factum est.
In ipso vita erat, et vita
erat lux hominum; et
lux in tenebris lucet, et
tenebræ eam non comprehenderunt.
</p>

<p>
(In the beginning was
the Word, and the
Word was with God, and
the Word was God. The
same was in the beginning
with God. All things
were made by Him: and
without Him was made
nothing that was made.
In Him was life, and the
life was the light of men:
and the light shineth in
darkness, and the darkness
did not comprehend
it.)
</p>

<pb n='583'/><anchor id='Pg583'/>

<p>
Fuit homo missus a
Deo, cui nomen erat
Joannes. Hic venit in
testimonium, ut testimonium
perhiberet de
lumine, ut omnes crederent
per illum. Non erat
ille lux; sed ut testimonium
perhiberet de lumine.
Erat lux vera quæ
illuminat omnem hominem
venientem in hunc
mundum. In mundo erat,
et mundus per ipsum factus
est, et mundus eum
non cognovit. In propria
venit, et sui eum non receperunt.
Quotquot autem
receperunt eum,
dedit eis potestatem filios
Dei fieri; his qui credunt
in nomine ejus, qui non
ex sanguinibus, neque ex
voluntate carnis, neque ex
voluntate viri, sed ex Deo
nati sunt. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Et Verbum
caro factum est</hi>, et habitavit
in nobis: et vidimus
gloriam ejus, gloriam quasi
unigeniti a Patre, plenum
gratiæ et veritatis.
</p>

<p>
(There was a man sent
from God, whose name
was John. This man
came for a witness to give
testimony of the light,
that all might believe
through him. He was
not the light, but came
to give testimony of the
light. That was the true
light which enlighteneth
every man that cometh
into this world. He was
in the world, and the
world was made by Him,
and the world knew Him
not. He came unto His
own, and His own received
Him not. But as
many as received Him,
to them He gave power
to be made the sons of
God; to them that believe
in His name, who
are born, not of blood,
nor of the will of the
flesh, nor of the will of
man, but of God. <hi rend='smallcaps'>And
the Word was made
flesh</hi>, and dwelt among
us; and we saw His glory,
as it were the glory of the
only-begotten of the
Father, full of grace and
truth.)
</p>

<pb n='584'/><anchor id='Pg584'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Deo gratias.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Thanks be to God.)
</p>

</div>

<pb n='585'/><anchor id='Pg585'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Vespers for Sundays.</head>

<quote rend='display'>
Vespers are a part of the Divine Offices recited daily by
the priests. They consist of five psalms, a chapter, a
hymn, the canticle of the Blessed Virgin Mary, <hi rend='italic'>Magnificat</hi>,
and an Antiphon to the Blessed Mother of God, which differs
according to the season. Although there is no express commandment
to assist at Vespers, yet every good Catholic will make
it his duty to attend when he can.
</quote>

<p>
Pater noster, etc.
Ave Maria, etc.
</p>

<p>
(Our Father, etc. Hail
Mary, etc.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>P.</hi> Deus, in adjutorium
meum intende.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>P.</hi> Incline unto my
aid, O God.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Domine, ad adjuvandum
me festina.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> O Lord, make haste
to help me.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Gloria Patri, et
Filio, * et Spiritui Sancto.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Glory be to the
Father, and to the Son,
and to the Holy Ghost.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Sicut erat in principio,
et nunc, et semper,
* et in sæcula sæculorum.
Amen. Alleluia.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> As it was in the
beginning, is now, and
ever shall be, world without
end. Amen. Alleluia.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>In Lent.</hi> Laus tibi,
Domine, Rex æternæ
gloriæ.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>In Lent.</hi> Praise be to
Thee, O King of eternal
glory.)
</p>

<p>
Psalm CIX.
</p>

<p>
Dixit Dominus Domino
meo: * sede
a dextris meis.
</p>

<p>
(The Lord said to my
Lord: Sit Thou at
My right hand.)
</p>

<pb n='586'/><anchor id='Pg586'/>

<p>
Donec ponam nimicos
tuos * scabellum pedum
tuorum.
</p>

<p>
(Until I make Thy enemies:
Thy footstool.)
</p>

<p>
Virgam virtutis tuæ
emittet Dominus ex Sion:
* dominare in medio inimicorum
tuorum.
</p>

<p>
(The Lord will send
forth the sceptre of Thy
power out of Sion: rule
Thou in the midst of Thy
enemies.)
</p>

<p>
Tecum principium in
die virtutis tuæ in splendoribus
sanctorum: * ex
utero ante luciferum genui
te.
</p>

<p>
(With Thee is the principality
in the day of Thy
strength, in the brightness
of the saints: from the
womb before the day star
I begot Thee.)
</p>

<p>
Juravit Dominus, et
non pœnitebit eum: * tu
es sacerdos in æternum,
secundum ordinem Melchisedech.
</p>

<p>
(The Lord hath sworn,
and He will not repent:
Thou art a priest forever
according to the order of
Melchisedech.)
</p>

<p>
Dominus a dextris tuis
* confregit in die iræ suæ
reges.
</p>

<p>
(The Lord, at Thy right
hand, hath broken kings
in the day of His wrath.)
</p>

<p>
Judicabit in nationibus,
implebit ruinas: * conquassabit
capita in terra
multorum.
</p>

<p>
(He shall judge among
nations, He shall fill
ruins: He shall crush the
heads in the land of many.)
</p>

<p>
De torrente in via bibet,
* propterea exaltabit caput.
</p>

<p>
(He shall drink of the
torrent in the way: therefore
shall He lift up the
head.)
</p>

<p>
Gloria Patri, etc.
</p>

<p>
(Glory be to the Father,
etc.)
</p>

<pb n='587'/><anchor id='Pg587'/>

<p>
Psalm CX.
</p>

<p>
Confitebor tibi, Domine,
in toto corde
meo: * in concilio justorum,
et congregatione.
</p>

<p>
(I will praise Thee, O
Lord, with my
whole heart: in the council
of the just, and in the
congregation.)
</p>

<p>
Magna opera Domini:
* exquisita in omnes voluntates
ejus.
</p>

<p>
(Great are the works of
the Lord: sought out according
to all His wills.)
</p>

<p>
Confessio et magnificentia
opus ejus, * et
justitia ejus manet in
sæculum sæculi.
</p>

<p>
(His work is praise and
magnificence: and His
justice continueth forever
and ever.)
</p>

<p>
Memoriam fecit mirabilium
suorum, misericors
et miserator Dominus:
* escam dedit timentibus
se.
</p>

<p>
(He hath made a remembrance
of His wonderful
works, being a
merciful and gracious
Lord: He hath given
food to them that fear
Him.)
</p>

<p>
Memor erit in sæculum
testamenti sui: * virtutem
operum suorum annuntiabit
populo suo:
</p>

<p>
(He will be mindful
forever of His covenant:
He will show forth to
His people the power of
His works:)
</p>

<p>
Ut det illis hæreditatem
Gentium: * opera
manuum ejus veritas et
judicium.
</p>

<p>
(That He may give
them the inheritance of
the Gentiles: the works
of His hands are truth
and judgment.)
</p>

<p>
Fidelia omnia mandata
ejus, confirmata in sæculum
sæculi, * facta in
veritate et æquitate.
</p>

<p>
(All His commandments
are faithful, confirmed
forever and ever: made
in truth and equity.)
</p>

<pb n='588'/><anchor id='Pg588'/>

<p>
Redemptionem misit
populo suo: * mandavit
in æternum testamentum
suum.
</p>

<p>
(He hath sent redemption
to His people: He
hath commanded His
covenant forever.)
</p>

<p>
Sanctum et terribile
nomen ejus: * initium
sapientiæ timor Domini.
</p>

<p>
(Holy and terrible is
His name: the fear of
the Lord is the beginning
of wisdom.)
</p>

<p>
Intellectus bonus omnibus
facientibus eum: *
laudatio ejus manet in
sæculum sæculi.
</p>

<p>
(A good understanding
to all that do it: His
praise continueth forever
and ever.)
</p>

<p>
Gloria Patri, etc.
</p>

<p>
(Glory, etc.)
</p>


<p>
Psalm CXI.
</p>

<p>
Beatus vir qui timet
Dominum: * in
mandatis ejus volet nimis.
</p>

<p>
(Blessed is the man
that feareth the
Lord: he shall delight
exceedingly in His commandments.)
</p>

<p>
Potens in terra erit
semen ejus: * generatio
rectorum benedicetur.
</p>

<p>
(His seed shall be
mighty upon earth: the
generation of the righteous
shall be blessed.)
</p>

<p>
Gloria et divitiæ in
domo ejus: * et justitia
ejus manet in sæculum
sæculi.
</p>

<p>
(Glory and wealth shall
be in his house: and his
justice remaineth forever
and ever.)
</p>

<p>
Exortum est in tenebris
lumen rectis: * misericors,
et miserator, et
justus.
</p>

<p>
(To the righteous a light
has sprung up in darkness:
he is merciful, and
compassionate, and just.)
</p>

<p>
Jucundus homo qui
miseretur et commodat,
disponet sermones suos
in judicio: * quia in
æternum non commovebitur.
</p>

<p>
(Acceptable is the man
that showeth mercy and
lendeth; he shall order
his words with judgment:
because he shall not be
moved forever.)
</p>

<pb n='589'/><anchor id='Pg589'/>

<p>
In memoria æterna erit
justus: *  ab auditione
mala non timebit.
</p>

<p>
(The just shall be in
everlasting remembrance:
he shall not fear the evil
hearing.)
</p>

<p>
Paratum cor ejus sperare
in Domino, confirmatum
est cor ejus: *  non
commovebitur, donec
despiciat inimicos suos.
</p>

<p>
(His heart is ready to
hope in the Lord, his
heart is strengthened: he
shall not be moved until
he look over his enemies.)
</p>

<p>
Dispersit, dedit pauperibus:
justitia ejus
manet in sæculum sæculi:
* cornu ejus exaltabitur in
gloria.
</p>

<p>
(He hath distributed, he
hath given to the poor:
his justice remaineth forever
and ever, his horn
shall be exalted in glory.)
</p>

<p>
Peccator videbit, et
irascetur, dentibus suis
fremet et tabescet: *  desiderium
peccatorum peribit.
</p>

<p>
(The wicked shall see,
and shall be angry; he
shall gnash with his teeth
and pine away: the desire
of the wicked shall perish.)
</p>

<p>
Gloria Patri, etc.
</p>

<p>
(Glory, etc.)
</p>

<p>
Psalm CXII.
</p>

<p>
Laudate, pueri, Dominum:
* laudate
nomen Domini.
</p>

<p>
(Praise the Lord, ye
children: praise
ye the name of the Lord.)
</p>

<p>
Sit nomen Domini benedictum,
* ex hoc nunc
et usque in sæculum.
</p>

<p>
(Blessed be the name of
the Lord: from henceforth,
now, and forever.)
</p>

<p>
A solis ortu usque ad
occasum, * laudabile nomen
Domini.
</p>

<p>
(From the rising of the
sun unto the going down
of the same: the name of
the Lord is worthy of
praise.)
</p>

<pb n='590'/><anchor id='Pg590'/>

<p>
Excelsus super omnes
gentes Dominus: * et super
cœlos gloria ejus.
</p>

<p>
(The Lord is high above
all nations: and His glory
above the heavens.)
</p>

<p>
Quis sicut Dominus
Deus noster, qui in altis
habitat: * et humilia respicit
in cœlo et in terra?
</p>

<p>
(Who is like the Lord
our God, Who dwelleth
on high: and looketh
down on the low things
in heaven and in earth?)
</p>

<p>
Suscitans a terra inopem,
* et de stercore erigens
pauperem;
</p>

<p>
(Raising up the needy
from the earth, and lifting
up the poor out of the
dung-hill;)
</p>

<p>
Ut collocet eum cum
principibus: * cum principibus
populi sui.
</p>

<p>
(That He may place
him with princes: with
the princes of His people.)
</p>

<p>
Qui habitare facit sterilem
in domo: * matrem
filiorum lætantem.
</p>

<p>
(Who maketh a barren
woman to dwell in a
house: the joyful mother
of children.)
</p>

<p>
Gloria Patri, etc.
</p>

<p>
(Glory, etc.)
</p>

<p>
Psalm CXIII.
</p>

<p>
In exitu Israel de
Ægypto: * domus
Jacob de populo barbaro:
</p>

<p>
(When Israel went out
of Egypt, the
house of Jacob from a
barbarous people:)
</p>

<p>
Facta est Judæa sanctificatio
ejus, * Israel potestas
ejus.
</p>

<p>
Judea was made his
sanctuary, Israel his dominion.
</p>

<pb n='591'/><anchor id='Pg591'/>

<p>
Mare vidit, et fugit: *
Jordanis conversus est retrorsum.
</p>

<p>
(The sea saw and fled:
Jordan was turned back.)
</p>

<p>
Montes exultaverunt ut
arietes: * et colles sicut
agni ovium.
</p>

<p>
(The mountains skipped
like rams: and the hills
like the lambs of the
flock.)
</p>

<p>
Quid est tibi, mare,
quod fugisti? * et tu, Jordanis,
quia conversus es
retrorsum?
</p>

<p>
(What aileth thee, O
thou sea, that thou didst
flee? and thou, O Jordan,
that thou wast turned
back?)
</p>

<p>
Montes, exultastis sicut
arietes? * et colles sicut
agni ovium?
</p>

<p>
(Ye mountains, that ye
skipped like rams: and
ye hills like the lambs of
the flock?)
</p>

<p>
A facie Domini mota
est terra: * a facie Dei
Jacob.
</p>

<p>
(At the presence of the
Lord the earth was moved:
at the presence of the God
of Jacob.)
</p>

<p>
Qui convertit petram
in stagna aquarum: * et
rupem in fontes aquarum.
</p>

<p>
(Who turned the rock
into pools of water: and
the stony hills into fountains
of waters.)
</p>

<p>
Non nobis, Domine,
non nobis: * sed nomini
tuo da gloriam.
</p>

<p>
(Not unto us, O Lord,
not unto us: but to Thy
name give glory.)
</p>

<p>
Super misericordia tua,
et veritate tua: * ne
quando dicant Gentes:
ubi est Deus eorum?
</p>

<p>
(For Thy mercy and for
Thy truth's sake: lest the
Gentiles should say,
Where is their God?)
</p>

<p>
Deus autem noster in
cœlo: * omnia quæcumque
voluit, fecit.
</p>

<p>
But Our God is in
heaven: He hath done all
things whatsoever He
would.
</p>

<pb n='592'/><anchor id='Pg592'/>

<p>
Simulacra Gentium argentum
et aurum, * opera
manuum hominum.
</p>

<p>
(The idols of the Gentiles
are silver and gold:
the work of the hands of
men.)
</p>

<p>
Os habent, et non loquentur:
* oculos habent,
et non videbunt.
</p>

<p>
(They have mouths and
speak not: they have
eyes and see not.)
</p>

<p>
Aures habent, et non
audient: * nares habent,
et non odorabunt.
</p>

<p>
(They have ears and
hear not: they have noses
and smell not.)
</p>

<p>
Manus habent, et non
palpabunt: pedes habent,
et non ambulabunt: * non
clamabunt in gutture suo.
</p>

<p>
(They have hands and
feel not: they have feet
and walk not, neither
shall they cry out through
their throats.)
</p>

<p>
Similes illis fiant qui
faciunt ea: * et omnes
qui confidunt in eis.
</p>

<p>
(Let them that make
them become like unto
them: and such as trust
in them.)
</p>

<p>
Domus Israel speravit
in Domino: * adjutor
eorum et protector eorum
est.
</p>

<p>
(The house of Israel
hath hoped in the Lord:
He is their helper and
their protector.)
</p>

<p>
Domus Aaron speravit
in Domino: * adjutor
eorum et protector eorum
est.
</p>

<p>
(The house of Aaron
hath hoped in the Lord:
He is their helper and
their protector.)
</p>

<p>
Qui timent Dominum,
speraverunt in Domino: *
adjutor eorum et protector
eorum est.
</p>

<p>
(They that fear the Lord
have hoped in the Lord:
He is their helper and
their protector.)
</p>

<p>
Dominus memor fuit
nostri: * et benedixit
nobis.
</p>

<p>
The Lord hath been
mindful of us: and hath
blessed us.
</p>

<pb n='593'/><anchor id='Pg593'/>

<p>
Benedixit domui
Israel: * benedixit domui
Aaron.
</p>

<p>
(He hath blessed the
house of Israel: He hath
blessed the house of
Aaron.)
</p>

<p>
Benedixit omnibus qui
timent Dominum, * pusillis
cum majoribus.
</p>

<p>
(He hath blessed all
that fear the Lord: both
little and great.)
</p>

<p>
Adjiciat Dominus super
vos: * super vos, et super
filios vestros.
</p>

<p>
(May the Lord add blessings
upon you: upon you
and upon your children.)
</p>

<p>
Benedicti vos a Domino:
* qui fecit cœlum et
terram.
</p>

<p>
(Blessed be you of the
Lord; Who made heaven
and earth.)
</p>

<p>
Cœlum cœli Domino; *
terram autem dedit filiis
hominum.
</p>

<p>
(The heaven of heavens
is the Lord's: but the
earth He hath given to
the children of men.)
</p>

<p>
Non mortui laudabunt
te, Domine: * neque
omnes qui descendunt in
infernum.
</p>

<p>
(The dead shall not
praise Thee, O Lord: nor
any of them that go down
to hell.)
</p>

<p>
Sed nos qui vivimus,
benedicimus Domino: *
ex hoc nunc, et usque in
sæculum.
</p>

<p>
(But we that live bless
the Lord: from this time,
now and forever.)
</p>

<p>
Gloria Patri, etc.
</p>

<p>
(Glory, etc.)
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Instead of 113, Psalm 116 is often sung.
</quote>

<p>
Psalm CXVI.
</p>

<p>
Laudate Dominum,
omnes Gentes: *
laudate eum, omnes populi.
</p>

<p>
Praise the Lord, all
ye nations: praise
Him, all ye people.
</p>

<pb n='594'/><anchor id='Pg594'/>

<p>
Quoniam confirmata est
super nos misericordia
ejus: * et veritas Domini
manet in æternum.
</p>

<p>
(Because His mercy is
confirmed upon us: and
the truth of the Lord
remaineth forever.)
</p>

<p>
Gloria Patri, etc.
</p>

<p>
(Glory, etc.)
</p>

<p>
The Capitulum.
</p>

<p>
Benedictus Deus et
Pater Domini nostri
Jesu Christi, Pater
misericordiarum, et Deus
totius consolationis, qui
consolatur nos in omni
tribulatione nostra.
</p>

<p>
(Blessed be the God
and Father of Our
Lord Jesus Christ, the
Father of mercies, and
the God of all comfort,
Who comforteth us in all
our tribulations.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Deo gratias.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Thanks be to God.)
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Here is usually sung a hymn appropriate to the season of
the year.
</quote>

<p>
Hymn For Sunday.
</p>

<lg>
<l>Lucis Creator optime,</l>
<l>Lucem dierum proferens,</l>
<l>Primordiis lucis novæ,</l>
<l>Mundi parans originem.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>(O great Creator of the light,</l>
<l>Who, from the darksome womb of night,</l>
<l>Broughtst forth new light at nature's birth,</l>
<l>To shine upon the face of earth.)</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Qui mane junctum vesperi</l>
<l>Diem vocari præcipis;</l>
<l>Illabitur tetrum chaos,</l>
<l>Audi preces cum fletibus.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>(Who, by the morn and evening ray,</l>
<l>Hast measured time and called it day,</l>
<l>Whilst sable night involves the spheres,</l>
<l>Vouchsafe to hear our prayers and tears.)</l>
</lg>

<pb n='595'/><anchor id='Pg595'/>

<lg>
<l>Ne mens gravata crimine,</l>
<l>Vitæ sit exul munere,</l>
<l>Dum nil perenne cogitat,</l>
<l>Seseque culpis illigat.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>(Lest our frail mind, with sin defiled,</l>
<l>From gifts of life should be exiled,</l>
<l>Whilst on no heavenly thing she thinks,</l>
<l>But twines herself in Satan's links.)</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Cœleste pulset ostium:</l>
<l>Vitale tollat præmium:</l>
<l>Vitemus omne noxium:</l>
<l>Purgemus omne pessimum.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>(Oh, may she soar to heaven above,</l>
<l>The happy seat of light and love;</l>
<l>Meantime all sinful actions shun,</l>
<l>And purge the foul ones she hath done.)</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Præsta, Pater piissime,</l>
<l>Patrique compar unice,</l>
<l>Cum Spiritu Paraclito,</l>
<l>Regnans per omne sæculum. Amen.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>(This prayer, most gracious Father, hear,</l>
<l>Thy equal Son incline His ear,</l>
<l>Who, with the Holy Ghost and Thee,</l>
<l>Doth live and reign eternally. Amen.)</l>
</lg>

<p>
The Magnificat,
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Or Canticle of the Blessed Virgin Mary.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Magnificat * anima
mea Dominum.
</p>

<p>
(My soul doth magnify
the Lord;)
</p>

<pb n='596'/><anchor id='Pg596'/>

<p>
Et exultavit spiritus
meus * in Deo salutari
meo.
</p>

<p>
(And my spirit hath rejoiced
in God my Saviour.)
</p>

<p>
Quia respexit humilitatem
ancillæ suæ: * ecce
enim ex hoc beatam me
dicent omnes generationes.
</p>

<p>
(Because He hath regarded
the humility of
His handmaid: for behold
from henceforth all
generations shall call me
blessed.)
</p>

<p>
Quia fecit mihi magna
qui potens est: * et sanctum
nomen ejus.
</p>

<p>
(For He that is mighty
hath done great things to
me: and holy is His
name.)
</p>

<p>
Et misericordia ejus a
progenie in progenies,
* timentibus eum.
</p>

<p>
(And His mercy is from
generation to generation:
to them that fear Him.)
</p>

<p>
Fecit potentiam in
brachio suo: * dispersit
superbos mente cordis
sui.
</p>

<p>
(He hath showed might
in His arm: He hath
scattered the proud in the
conceit of their heart.)
</p>

<p>
Deposuit potentes de
sede, * et exaltavit humiles.
</p>

<p>
(He hath put down the
mighty from their seat: and
hath exalted the humble.)
</p>

<p>
Esurientes implevit bonis:
* et divites dimisit
inanes.
</p>

<p>
(He hath filled the
hungry with good things:
and the rich He hath sent
away empty.)
</p>

<p>
Suscepit Israel puerum
suum: * recordatus misericordiæ
suæ.
</p>

<p>
(He hath received Israel
His servant: being mindful
of His mercy.)
</p>

<p>
Sicut locutus est ad
patres nostros: * Abraham,
et semini ejus in sæcula.
</p>

<p>
(As He spoke to our
fathers: to Abraham, and
to his seed forever.)
</p>

<p>
Gloria Patri, etc.
</p>

<p>
(Glory, etc.)
</p>

<pb n='597'/><anchor id='Pg597'/>

<quote rend='display'>
For the <hi rend='italic'>Magnificat</hi>, Pope Leo XIII. granted an indulgence
of 100 days, to be gained by reciting it devoutly and with contrite
heart once a day. (September 20, 1879.)
</quote>

<quote rend='display'>
Then follows the prayer, which is different every day.
</quote>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Dominus vobiscum.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> The Lord be with
you.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Et cum spiritu tuo.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And with thy spirit.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Benedicamus Domino.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Let us bless the
Lord.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Deo gratias.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Thanks be to God.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Fidelium animæ,
per misericordiam Dei,
requiescant in pace.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> May the souls of
the faithful departed,
through the mercy of
God, rest in peace.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.)
</p>

<p>
Pater noster, etc. (<hi rend='italic'>secreto</hi>).
</p>

<p>
(Our Father (<hi rend='italic'>in secret</hi>).)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Dominus det nobis
suam pacem.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> May the Lord grant
us His peace.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Et vitam æternam.
Amen.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And life everlasting.
Amen.)
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Then is sung one of the following anthems, according to the
time.
</quote>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>From Advent to the Purification.</hi>
</p>

<lg>
<l>Alma Redemptoris Mater, quæ pervia cœli,</l>
<l>Porta manes, et stella maris, succurre cadenti,</l>
<l>Surgere qui curat populo: tu quæ genuisti,</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>(Mother of Jesus, heaven's open gate,</l>
<l>Star of the sea, support the fallen state</l>
<l>Of mortals; thou whose womb thy Maker bore,)</l>
</lg>

<pb n='598'/><anchor id='Pg598'/>

<lg>
<l>Natura mirante, tuum sanctum genitorem:</l>
<l>Virgo prius ac posterius: Gabrielis ab ore,</l>
<l>Sumens illud ave, peccatorum miserere.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>(And yet, strange thing, a virgin as before:</l>
<l>Who didst from Gabriel's hail this news receive;</l>
<l>Repenting sinners by thy prayers relieve.)</l>
</lg>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>In Advent.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Angelus Domini
nuntiavit
Mariæ.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> The angel of the
Lord declared
unto Mary.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Et concepit de Spiritu
Sancto.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> And she conceived
of the Holy Ghost.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Oremus.</hi>
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>Let Us Pray.</hi>)
</p>

<p>
Gratiam tuam quæsumus,
Domine,
mentibus nostris infunde,
ut qui, angelo nuntiante,
Christi Filii tui incarnationem
cognovimus, per
Passionem ejus et crucem,
ad resurrectionis gloriam
perducamur. Per eundem
Christum Dominum nostrum.
</p>

<p>
(Pour forth, we beseech
Thee, O
Lord, Thy grace into our
hearts, that we, to whom
the incarnation of Christ,
Thy Son, has been made
known by the message of
an angel, may, by His
Passion and cross, be
brought to the glory of
His resurrection.
Through the same Christ
Our Lord.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.)
</p>

<pb n='599'/><anchor id='Pg599'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>After Advent.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Post partum virgo
inviolata permansisti.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> After childbirth
thou didst remain
a pure virgin.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Dei genitrix, intercede
pro nobis.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Mother of God, intercede
for us.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Oremus.</hi>
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>Let Us Pray.</hi>)
</p>

<p>
Deus, qui salutis
æternæ beatæ
Mariæ virginitate fœcunda
humano generi
præmia præstitisti: tribue
quæsumus, ut ipsam pro
nobis intercedere sentiamus,
per quam meruimus
Auctorem vitæ suscipere,
Dominum nostrum Jesum
Christum Filium tuum.
</p>

<p>
(O God, Who, by the
fruitful virginity of
the Blessed Virgin Mary,
hast given to mankind
the rewards of eternal
salvation: grant, we beseech
Thee, that we
may be sensible of the
benefits of her intercession,
by whom we have
received the Author of
life, Our Lord Jesus
Christ, Thy Son.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>From The Purification Till Easter.</hi>
</p>

<lg>
<l>Ave, Regina cœlorum!</l>
<l>Ave, Domina angelorum!</l>
<l>Salve, radix! salve, porta!</l>
<l>Ex qua mundo lux est orta.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>(Hail, Mary, queen of heavenly spheres!</l>
<l>Hail, whom the angelic host reveres!</l>
<l>Hail, fruitful root! hail, sacred gate!</l>
<l>Whence the world's light derives its date.)</l>
</lg>

<pb n='600'/><anchor id='Pg600'/>

<lg>
<l>Gaude, Virgo gloriosa,</l>
<l>Super omnes speciosa,</l>
<l>Vale, O valde decora,</l>
<l>Et pro nobis Christum exora.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>(O glorious Maid, with beauty blest,</l>
<l>May joys eternal fill thy breast!</l>
<l>Thus, crowned with beauty and with joy,</l>
<l>Thy prayers with Christ for us employ.)</l>
</lg>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Dignare me laudare
te, Virgo sacrata.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Vouchsafe, O sacred
Virgin, to accept my
praises.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Da mihi virtutem
contra hostes tuos.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Give me power
against thy enemies.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Oremus.</hi>
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>Let Us Pray.</hi>)
</p>

<p>
Concede, misericors
Deus, fragilitati
nostræ præsidium; ut qui
sanctæ Dei genitricis
memoriam agimus, intercessionis
ejus auxilio a
nostris iniquitatibus resurgamus.
Per eundem
Christum Dominum nostrum.
</p>

<p>
(Grant us, O merciful
God, strength
against all our weakness;
that we, who celebrate
the memory of the holy
Mother of God, may, by
the help of her intercession,
rise again from our
iniquities. Through the
same Christ Our Lord.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>From Easter Till Trinity Sunday.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Regina cœli, lætare!
Alleluia.
</p>

<p>
(O Queen of heaven,
rejoice, Alleluia.)
</p>

<p>
Quia quem meruisti portare,
Alleluia,
</p>

<p>
(For He Whom thou didst
deserve to bear, Alleluia,)
</p>

<pb n='601'/><anchor id='Pg601'/>

<p>
Resurrexit, sicut dixit.
Alleluia.
</p>

<p>
(Is risen again, as He said.
Alleluia.)
</p>

<p>
Ora pro nobis Deum.
Alleluia.
</p>

<p>
(Pray for us to God. Alleluia.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Gaude et lætare,
Virgo Maria. Alleluia.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Rejoice and be glad,
O Virgin Mary. Alleluia.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Quia surrexit Dominus
vere. Alleluia.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Because Our Lord
is truly risen. Alleluia.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Oremus.</hi>
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>Let Us Pray.</hi>)
</p>

<p>
Deus qui, per resurrectionem
Filii
tui, Domini nostri Jesu
Christi, mundum lætificare
dignatus es; præsta,
quæsumus, ut per ejus
genitricem Virginem
Mariam perpetuæ capiamus
gaudia vitæ. Per
eundem Christum, etc.
</p>

<p>
(O God, Who, by the
resurrection of
Thy Son, Our Lord Jesus
Christ, hast been pleased
to fill the world with joy:
grant, we beseech Thee,
that by the Virgin Mary,
His Mother, we may receive
the joys of eternal
life. Through, etc.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.)
</p>

<p>
From Trinity Sunday Till Advent.
</p>

<p>
Salve, Regina, mater
misericordiæ, vita,
dulcedo, et spes nostra
salve. Ad te clamamus,
exules filii Hevæ. Ad te
suspiramus, gementes et
flentes, in hac lacrymarum
valle. Eia ergo, advocata
nostra, illos tuos misericordes
oculos ad nos converte. Et Jesum, benedictum
fructum ventris tui
nobis post hoc exilium ostende,
O clemens, O pia,
O dulcis Virgo Maria!
</p>

<p>
(Hail to the Queen who
reigns above,
Mother of clemency and
love!
Hail, thou our hope, life,
sweetness! We,
Eve's banished children,
cry to thee.
We, from this wretched
vale of tears,
Send sighs and groans unto thy ears;
Oh, then, sweet advocate, bestow
A pitying look on us below!
After this exile let us see
Our blessed Jesus, born of thee.
O merciful, O pious Maid,
O gracious Mary, lend thy aid!)
</p>

<pb n='602'/><anchor id='Pg602'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Ora pro nobis,
sancta Dei Genitrix.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Pray for us, O holy
Mother of God.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Ut digni efficiamur
promissionibus Christi.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> That we may be
made worthy of the promises
of Christ.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Oremus.</hi>
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>Let Us Pray.</hi>)
</p>

<p>
Omnipotens, sempiterne
Deus, qui
gloriosæ Virginis Matris
Mariæ corpus et animam,
ut dignum Filii tui habitaculum
effici mereretur,
Spiritu Sancto co-operante
præparasti; da, ut
cujus commemoratione
lætamur ejus pin intercessione
ab instantibus malis,
et a morte perpetua liberemur. Per eundem Christum
Dominum nostrum.
</p>

<p>
Almighty and eternal
God, Who, by the
co-operation of the Holy
Ghost, didst prepare the
body and the soul of the
glorious Virgin Mother
Mary, that she might become
a worthy habitation
for Thy Son: grant that,
as with joy we celebrate
her memory, so, by her
pious intercession, we may
be delivered from present
evils and eternal death.
Through the same Christ
Our Lord.
</p>

<pb n='603'/><anchor id='Pg603'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>S.</hi> Divinum auxilium
maneat semper nobiscum.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>P.</hi> May the divine assistance
always remain
with us.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Amen.)
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Exposition and Benediction
of the
Most Holy Sacrament.</head>

<quote rend='display'>
When the priest opens the tabernacle, and incenses the
Blessed Sacrament, is sung the hymn:
</quote>

<lg>
<l>O salutaris Hostia,</l>
<l>Quæ cœli pandis ostium;</l>
<l>Bella premunt hostilia,</l>
<l>Da robur, fer auxilium.</l>
<l>Uni trinoque Domino</l>
<l>Sit sempiterna gloria,</l>
<l>Qui vitam sine termino</l>
<l>Nobis donet in patria.</l>
<l>Amen.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>(O saving Victim, opening wide</l>
<l>The gate of heaven to man below!</l>
<l>Our foes press on from every side;</l>
<l>Thine aid supply, Thy strength bestow.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>To Thy great name be endless praise,</l>
<l>Immortal Godhead, one in three!</l>
<l>Oh, grant us endless length of days</l>
<l>In our true native land with Thee.</l>
<l>Amen.)</l>
</lg>

<pb n='604'/><anchor id='Pg604'/>

<quote rend='display'>
Then is sung the hymn, <hi rend='italic'>Tantum ergo Sacramentum</hi>.
</quote>

<lg>
<l>Tantum ergo Sacramentum</l>
<l>Veneremur cernui:</l>
<l>Et antiquum documentum</l>
<l>Novo cedat ritui;</l>
<l>Præstet fides supplementum</l>
<l>Sensuum defectui.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>(Down in adoration falling,</l>
<l>Lo! the sacred Host we hail:</l>
<l>Lo! o'er ancient forms departing,</l>
<l>Newer rites of grace prevail;</l>
<l>Faith for all defects supplying</l>
<l>Where the feeble senses fail.)</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Genitori Genitoque</l>
<l>Laus et jubilatio,</l>
<l>Salus, honor, virtus quoque</l>
<l>Sit et benedictio:</l>
<l>Procedenti ab utroque</l>
<l>Compar sit laudatio.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>(To the everlasting Father,</l>
<l>And the Son Who reigns on high,</l>
<l>With the Holy Ghost proceeding</l>
<l>Forth from each eternally,</l>
<l>Be salvation, honor, blessing,</l>
<l>Might and endless majesty!)</l>
</lg>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Panem de cœlo
præstitisti eis. [Alleluia.]
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>V.</hi> Thou didst give
them bread from heaven.
[Alleluia.])
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Omne delectamentum
in se habentem. [Alleluia.]
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>R.</hi> Containing in itself
all sweetness. [Alleluia.])
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Oremus.</hi>
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>Let Us Pray.</hi>)
</p>

<p>
Deus, qui nobis sub
Sacramento mirabili, Passionis tuæ memoriam
reliquisti: tribue,
quæsumus, ita nos corporis
et sanguinis tui
sacra mysteria venerari,
ut redemptionis tuæ
fructum in nobis jugiter
sentiamus. Qui vivis,
etc. Amen.
</p>

<p>
(O God, Who, under a
wonderful sacrament, hast left us a memorial
of Thy Passion:
grant us, we beseech Thee,
so to venerate the sacred
mysteries of Thy body
and blood that we may
ever feel within us the
fruit of Thy redemption.
Who livest, etc. Amen.)
</p>

<pb n='605'/><anchor id='Pg605'/>

<quote rend='display'>
Here the Benediction is given with the Blessed Sacrament,
all bowing down in profound adoration.
</quote>

<p>
Adoremus in æternum
Sanctissimum
Sacramentum!
</p>

<p>
(May we forever adore
the Most Holy
Sacrament!)
</p>

</div>

<pb n='606'/><anchor id='Pg606'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Devotions for Confession and Communion.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Confession.</head>

<p>
Before Confession.
</p>

<p>
A Prayer For Sincere Contrition.
</p>

<p>
I have now, O my God! aided by Thy grace,
endeavored to discover the number of my
transgressions, and have examined, to the best of my
power, the state of my conscience. But, alas! O
Judge of the living and the dead! how far different
is my judgment from Thine! How many offences
are still perhaps hidden from my view, though perfectly
known to Thee! But, my God! as I am persuaded
it is not so much a knowledge of their number,
as sorrow for their deformity, that Thou requirest, I
now earnestly implore of Thee to give me that lively,
sincere, efficacious contrition, which I know is a
necessary condition of my pardon. My heart was
formed by Thee, Thou alone canst change it; it is in
Thy hands, and though most ungrateful, most insensible,
it is not too obdurate for Thee to penetrate and
soften. One drop of Thy adorable blood, one of
those precious tears which my offences drew from
Thy eyes, would suffice to produce in my soul the
most lively contrition. Ah! look on me, eternal
Light! and my understanding will be enlightened
to conceive the enormity of sin; touch my heart, and
it will be broken with sorrow for having ever offended
<pb n='607'/><anchor id='Pg607'/>
Thee. Convert me, and I shall be converted; for
my destruction, my misery, and my misfortune, is
from myself, but my salvation must come from Thee,
O my most merciful Father! from Thee, Whom I
have so ungratefully abandoned, and so grievously
offended.
</p>

<p>
Act of Contrition For Those Who Are Guilty
of Mortal Sin.
</p>

<p>
O infinite majesty of my God! I am so full of
shame at the sight of the ingratitude and
malice of which I find myself guilty before Thee,
that I dare not raise my eyes to heaven. I confess,
O most gracious and merciful Lord, that by the multitude
and enormity of my sins I have deserved to
be abandoned by Thee, and condemned to eternal
torments. Ah, unhappy being that I am, how can
I have dared to offend Thee! Can it be, O my
Saviour, that I have trampled under foot Thy blood,
by which I was redeemed; and that I have thus
renewed the pains of Thy Passion and of Thy death!
Ah, why, why did I not die at once, rather than
displease Thee! How could I dare to offend against
Thee, Who art infinite goodness, wisdom, and
beauty!... Thee, Who art perfection itself!...
Thee, Who art my God, my Creator, my beginning,
my end, my happiness, my all!... Thee, from
Whom I have received my being, my life, and all
that I am!... Thee, Who hast guided and protected
me with the tenderest love under the shadow of Thy
wings!... Thee, Who hast adopted me for Thy
child, and made me heir to Thy eternal kingdom!...
Thee, Who hast redeemed me by Thy most
precious blood, and hast so often nourished me with
<pb n='608'/><anchor id='Pg608'/>
Thy most sacred body and blood in the Sacrament
of the Eucharist! And yet, notwithstanding these,
Thy great and manifold blessings, I have offended
Thee, O my God! I have abandoned Thee, to
league with Thy enemies against Thee. I have preferred
a vile gratification to Thy love. Oh, ingratitude!
Oh, delusion! Oh, madness! Ah, when shall
I detest my sins as much as they deserve! O my
sweet and merciful Lord Jesus, of Whose goodness
there is no end, and of Whose mercy the treasure is
infinite, have pity on me, and save my soul! Pardon
me, O most bountiful Lord, pardon me, I entreat
Thee, by the merit of Thy bitter Passion and death!
Remember not my iniquities, but regard Thy infinite
mercy. I promise that, by the help of Thy grace,
I will never fall into them again. From this very
moment I break all the ties that bind me to the
world, to the flesh, to the devil, and to sin. I am
from this moment firmly resolved to trample under
foot all worldly vanities, and to consecrate myself
entirely to Thy holy love. Oh, never allow me to
fall back into my old habits of sin! Never permit
that honors, or interest, or pleasure, or pride, or
the love of life, or the fear of death, or any other
motive, shall cause me to swerve from Thy divine
commands. Grant that I may keep them with my
whole heart, though it should cost me the sacrifice
of my life, and of all I hold dearest in the world.
</p>

<p>
Ah, what has been my folly and my wickedness in
having so often and so grievously offended my God,
my heavenly Father, my gracious and loving Redeemer!
What ingratitude, what an excess of malice!
At the very moment I was receiving with one hand
the greatest favors and graces from this my most
<pb n='609'/><anchor id='Pg609'/>
tender and merciful Lord, with the other I was
plunging a dagger into His bosom&mdash;I was crucifying
Him again within my soul! I have sold myself to
the devil for a worthless pleasure; I have renounced
the kingdom of heaven and all the joys of paradise
for a trifling enjoyment; I have signed the decree
for my eternal damnation to gratify my pride; I
have condemned myself to suffer an eternity of torments
and all the agonies of hell, to indulge an unworthy
passion! Ah, who will give to my eyes a
fountain of tears, that I may weep and lament over
my sins!
</p>

<p>
O my divine Redeemer, Whose love I have unhappily
despised, Whose blood I have trodden under
foot, Whose wounds I have reopened, and Whose
death I have renewed by my sins! How can I present
myself before Thee after so great an excess of ingratitude
and malice! O my gracious Saviour, what
hadst Thou done to me that I should treat Thee so
cruelly! Thou hast reconciled me to Thy Father
by Thy death, and I have again drawn down upon
myself His indignation by repeated sins. Thou hast
snatched me from the slavery of the devil, and I
have again entangled myself in his snares. Thou
hast healed my wounds, and I have inflicted fresh
ones on myself. Thou hast delivered me from the
eternal flames of hell, to which I was condemned by
my sins, and I have cast myself into them again.
Thou hast obtained heaven for me, and I have sold
the right which Thou didst purchase at the price of
Thy blood, for a trifling pleasure, for a corruptible
crown. Is it possible to conceive folly, stupidity,
malice, equal to mine! I confess it here before
Thee, O Lord; I detest it from the depths of my
<pb n='610'/><anchor id='Pg610'/>
soul; and resolve to die a thousand times rather
than fall again into it. Ah, wilt Thou reject a
contrite and humble sinner, when Thou didst come
down from heaven to call sinners to repentance?
Wilt Thou refuse to receive this strayed sheep which
returns from his wanderings, after Thou hast sought
him so long, to bring him back to the fold? Wilt
Thou reject this prodigal child, who comes to throw
himself at Thy feet, after Thou hast so much grieved
over his loss? Wilt Thou leave me forever to groan
under the insupportable weight of sin, when Thou
didst invite all those who are burdened to cast their
load at Thy feet? Thou didst absolve the sinful
woman when, kneeling before Thee, she implored
Thy mercy; Thou didst remit the sins of the publican
when he humbled himself in Thy Temple; Thou
didst pardon the good thief when he acknowledged
Thy power on the cross; and shall I be the only one
to whom Thou wilt refuse grace? No, my adorable
Saviour, not so. I trust that, however unworthy I
have made myself of pardon, yet Thou wilt grant it
to me, and that Thy precious blood will appease Thy
Father's wrath against me, and wash away the stain
of my sins. Offer it, then, to Him for me, O Lord,
and apply it so effectually to me that I may be entirely
cleansed, and may be judged worthy to enter
into the blessed mansions, where nothing defiled can
be admitted. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Act Of Contrition For Venial Sin.
</p>

<p>
Prostrate at Thy feet, O Lord, I ask Thy pardon
for all the failings and negligences which
my frailty, my ignorance, and my malice have caused
<pb n='611'/><anchor id='Pg611'/>
me to commit against Thy infinite majesty, especially
for all those which I have perpetrated since my last
confession. I am confounded, Lord, when I remember
their number, and how much I have displeased
and offended Thee by them. Ah, how little
do I love Thee! how little do I love my neighbor!
With what coldness, with what cowardice have I
attended to Thy service! How much on the contrary
have I yielded to self-love, and how much I
still retain of affection for creatures! Oh, how
rarely do I enter into myself, and think seriously of
Thee! How filled with distractions are my prayers,
my meditations, and all my exercises of devotion!
How much vanity enters into all my actions! how
much attachment to my own will, my own ease, and
my own convenience! Ah, Lord, draw me, I entreat
Thee, out of the abyss of my misery, and purify
me from the multitude of my sins. Art thou not
overwhelmed with shame, O my soul, at the sight of
the many offences which thou hast committed against
thy sovereign Lord? Is it thus that thou servest a
God of infinite majesty? Is this what thou hast
promised Him so often, and to which thou art engaged
by the holiness of thy vocation? Knowest
thou not that the least sin is an offence to the infinite
majesty of God, that it contains an infinite malice,
that it is an evil which insults and offends thy most
loving Father, thy most bountiful Saviour, thy most
sweet and merciful Lord? Ah, if thou didst but
know what venial sin really is; if thou didst but
comprehend the stain which it produces upon thee,
the deformity, the wounds it occasions in the eyes
of God; the torment which it draws upon it in the
other life, the danger to which it exposes thy salvation,
<pb n='612'/><anchor id='Pg612'/>
thou wouldst give a thousand lives, if thou
hadst them, rather than sully thy conscience with it.
Thou feelest a difficulty in conceiving a bitter sorrow
for thy ordinary faults, because they are venial; but
this arises from thy want of light. The saints, to
whom God communicated in abundance His supernatural
inspirations, wept day and night bitterly
over their faults, which were slighter than those thou
dost commit daily.
</p>

<p>
It is enough, O my God, that slight as these sins
appear, they have displeased and offended Thee, to
induce me to conceive an extreme horror for them,
and to make me employ all my efforts to correct
them. I love Thee, O God of love; I praise and
glorify Thee, O infinite majesty! O purity of heart,
which cannot endure any attachment or affection to
the slightest sin, how lovely art thou! How happy
is he who is possessed of thee, for thou renderest us
favorites of God, thou makest our souls temples of
the Holy Ghost, and dost draw down upon us all the
graces and blessings of heaven! I will omit no pains
that I may obtain thee in future. But it is from Thee
alone, O Lord, that I may hope for this happiness:
I am too weak to aspire after it by my own efforts.
Thou alone canst enrich me with a gift so precious;
grant it to me, I pray Thee, O my God. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Good Resolutions.
</p>

<p>
Since I have had the misfortune to offend Thee,
O my God, and that I cannot recall the past,
I resolve at least, with the assistance of Thy grace,
to repair it by henceforth carefully avoiding all that
displeases Thee. I will shun sin, with its sources
and occasions, particularly those sins into which my
<pb n='613'/><anchor id='Pg613'/>
natural frailty most frequently leads me. I will adopt
the means suggested by Thy minister for the correction
of my faults, listening to his words as if spoken
by Thyself. I know, O my God, what I should have
to apprehend from the severity of Thy justice, if Thy
anger had not been appeased by the merits of Jesus
Christ. I feel that Thou wilt not reject the prayer
of Thine innocent Son, Whose blood pleads for me,
His guilty creature. In this hope, O God of goodness!
I present myself at Thy tribunal, there to accuse
myself of my sins, entirely, sincerely, and humbly,
with full confidence that Thou wilt ratify in
heaven the absolution pronounced on earth. Holy
Virgin! Mother of grace and mercy! Refuge of sinners!
intercede for me, that in this confession I may
receive full pardon for the past, and grace to avoid
sin in future. My good angel! who hast been the
witness of my transgressions, help me to rise from
my evil habits, and obtain for me strength against
future relapses. Amen.
</p>

<p>
After Confession.
</p>

<p>
Prayer After Confession.
</p>

<p>
Can I persuade myself, O Lord! that, criminal
as I was a few moments since, I am now, by
the grace of the sacrament, purified from my sins!
God of mercy! Who, by the absolution pronounced
by Thy minister, hast cleansed me from my iniquities,
and restored me to Thy favor, shedding on me Thy
precious blood, and applying to my soul the virtue
of Thy sacred wounds, how shall I acknowledge the
wonders of Thy love! Truly, O Lord, are Thy
mercies above all Thy works! How shall I prove
<pb n='614'/><anchor id='Pg614'/>
my gratitude to Thee, O divine Benefactor of my
soul! I will offer Thee this day, and all the days of
my life, a sacrifice of thanksgiving, and incessantly
extol Thy divine munificence. I will consecrate my
whole existence to Thee, shunning sin, and loving
Thee with my whole heart. Oh, permit not that I
should again trample on the blood which saved me,
and grieve the Heart which was broken for me.
Give efficacy to my desire nevermore to offend
Thee: fortify my weakness; preserve me from occasions
of sin; grant me the grace of steady perseverance
in my good resolutions. O Strength of
the weak! in proportion as I distrust myself, so do
I firmly hope in Thee; grant me, then, Thy all-powerful
assistance, on which alone I rely. Prostrate
at Thy feet, O my Saviour! with the penitent
Magdalen, I implore this, as the greatest of all
favors. O Father of mercies! I know that Thou
art reluctant to destroy the vessel of clay Thy hands
have formed; strengthen me, then, against future
relapses. Holy Virgin, support me by thy powerful
protection; all ye angels and saints, intercede for
my conversion and sanctification.
</p>

<p>
Offering of the Penance Enjoined at Confession.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Before leaving the chapel offer your penance, or such portion
as you can, prefacing it with the following or some appropriate
prayer.
</quote>

<p>
O God of sanctity! of myself I have no means
of satisfying Thy rigorous justice, but I offer
Thee an abundant satisfaction in the infinite merits
of a God-man. I present Thee, O my God! the
Sacred Heart of Thy Son, filled with sadness and
<pb n='615'/><anchor id='Pg615'/>
pierced with wounds for me, that Thy justice may
thus be appeased. I unite my sufferings to the bitter
pangs of my dying Saviour. May the abundance of
His merits, and the immense charity of His Heart,
supply for the imperfection and insufficiency of my
works. O Lord! Who hast severed my chains,
strengthen me with Thy grace, that I may never resume
them; that I may conquer the bad habits
which have been so long opposed to Thy spirit, and
courageously resist the temptations to which I have
hitherto so easily yielded. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Aspirations, Some Of Which May Be Used Advantageously
Before Or After Confession.
</p>

<p>
My Lord and my God, I sincerely acknowledge
myself a vile and wretched sinner, unworthy
to appear in Thy presence; but do Thou have mercy
on me, and save me.
</p>

<p>
Most loving Father, I have sinned against heaven,
and before Thee, and am unworthy to be called Thy
child; make me as one of Thy servants, and may I
for the future be ever faithful to Thee.
</p>

<p>
It truly grieves me, O my God, to have sinned,
and so many times transgressed Thy law; but wash
me now from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my
sin.
</p>

<p>
I detest my sins, O Lord: I abhor my wickedness:
I confess my ingratitude, and seek refuge in Thy
mercy.
</p>

<p>
From this moment I purpose nevermore to offend
Thee: oh, let me suffer all kinds of pain and infamy,
nay, even death itself, rather than return to my former
course of life, and live Thy enemy.
</p>

<pb n='616'/><anchor id='Pg616'/>

<p>
O loving Father, assist me by Thy grace, that I
may bring forth worthy fruits of penance, and not
suffer my sins to go unpunished.
</p>

<p>
Now, O Lord, I begin to live, not trusting in my
own strength, or in the resolutions I make, but in
the multitude of Thy mercies. Perfect, O God, the
work which Thou hast begun in me. Thou hast
given me peace and understanding; but, wretched
sinner that I am, how ungratefully have I abused all
Thy gifts! And yet now, with all the tenderness of
a loving Father, Thou recallest me from sin, and rescuest
me from hell and everlasting damnation.
</p>

<p>
Alas! my soul is full of anguish and confusion at
the recollection of the many sins whereby I have
offended Thee, my merciful Redeemer, made myself
a slave to the devil, and provoked Thy anger.
</p>

<p>
Oh, that I had never transgressed Thy commandments,
nor fallen into such an abyss of misery and
calamity! Oh, that I had never sinned! Happy
those souls who have preserved their innocence:
oh, that I had been so happy!
</p>

<p>
But now I am resolved, with the help of Thy
grace, to be more watchful over myself, to amend
my failings, and fulfil Thy law. Look down on me
with the eyes of mercy, O God, and blot out my
sins.
</p>

<p>
Forgive me what is past, and, through Thine infinite
goodness, secure me, by Thy grace, against all
my wonted failings for the time to come.
</p>

<p>
My sins surpass in number the sands of the sea,
and I confess myself, O Lord, unworthy of Thy
mercy; but Thy goodness is above all my offences.
</p>

<p>
Thou hast declared, O Lord, that there is joy in
heaven for the conversion of a sinner; grant me,
<pb n='617'/><anchor id='Pg617'/>
then, the grace of true repentance, and let heaven
rejoice at my amendment.
</p>

<p>
Thou willest not the death of a sinner, but that he
be converted and live. Grant me, then, that spiritual
life which I need; for behold, O Lord, I sincerely
desire to live to Thee.
</p>

<p>
Thou didst come, O dear Redeemer, not to call
the just, but sinners, to repentance; behold a miserable
sinner here before Thee: oh, draw me powerfully
to Thyself.
</p>

<p>
Have mercy on me, O God, according to Thy
great mercy; and, according to the multitude of Thy
tender mercies, blot out my iniquities. Sprinkle me
with Thy precious blood, and I shall be whiter than
snow.
</p>

<p>
Let not Thy precious blood, my dear Saviour, be
shed for me in vain; but may it now bring forth in
me the fruit of sincere repentance, and open to me
the way to life everlasting.
</p>

<p>
How great is Thy goodness, O Lord, in having so
long spared such a worthless servant, and waited
with so much patience for his amendment! What
return shall I make for Thy infinite mercies? Oh,
let this mercy be added to the rest, that I may nevermore
offend Thee: this single favor I earnestly beg
of Thee, O Lord, viz., that I may for the future <hi rend='italic'>renounce
my own way to follow Thine</hi>.
</p>

<p>
Help me, O Lord my God, and have compassion
on my sinful soul. Amen.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='618'/><anchor id='Pg618'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Communion.</head>

<p>
Before Communion.
</p>

<p>
A Prayer Which May Be Said Some Days Before
Communion.
</p>

<p>
O Lord Jesus Christ! Whom I aspire to receive
in a few days within the temple of my soul, I
come to implore that Thou wilt Thyself prepare Thy
destined abode, cleansing it from every stain, and
enriching it with ornaments worthy of Thy presence.
Grant me an increase of faith, hope, and charity;
grant me true contrition, and profound humility;
grant me to sigh with holy Simeon for Thy coming,
and, like him, to centre in Thee alone the ardent
affections and fervent desires of my heart. O Lord!
Whose throne is surrounded by cherubim and seraphim!
Whose presence is felt by all creation, Whose
spotless sanctity the angels themselves contemplate
with awe, I acknowledge my extreme unworthiness
to receive Thee; but animated with lively confidence
in Thy paternal goodness, I conjure Thee to prepare
me Thyself, and to supply from the treasury of Thy
abundant mercies for all my deficiencies. O Thou
Who hast come on earth to save me, and Who by
Thy sufferings hast opened heaven to receive me,
grant me grace to profit by all Thou hast done and
endured for my salvation!
</p>

<p>
Aspirations Which Should Be Used The Days Preceding
Communion.
</p>

<p>
As the wearied hart pines for the refreshing
water, so does my soul thirst for Thee, O
Lord!
</p>

<pb n='619'/><anchor id='Pg619'/>

<p>
My soul sighs for the possession of God; when
shall I come and appear before Him? Lord, I come
to Thee; but how shall I prepare the way for Thee?
I am not worthy that Thou shouldst enter under
my roof; say but the word, and my soul shall be
healed.
</p>

<p>
How can I receive Thee into a heart so full of iniquities,
and yet how can I abstain from the living
Bread come down from heaven to give life to the
world?
</p>

<p>
Have pity, I beseech Thee, on me, a sinner; and
deign to prepare Thyself a dwelling in my heart;
grant that from Thy adorable body may proceed a
virtue to give strength and life to my soul.
</p>

<p>
Prepare me for Thyself, O Jesus! and render me
worthy of Thy visit; look on me, O Lord! and inflame
me with Thy love; that I may run after the
odor of Thy perfumes.
</p>

<p>
Grant me humility of spirit, and pure charity, to
render me worthy of participating in the blessed food
of heaven.
</p>

<p>
I wish to attract Thee by my love, and to enjoy
Thy presence in the centre of my soul. O my God!
my life! my all! I beseech Thee to come into my
heart, and to unite me to Thyself forever.
</p>

<p>
Act Of Faith.
</p>

<p>
<q>Behold, He cometh leaping upon the mountains,
skipping over the hills.</q>&mdash;Cant. ii.
8. Ah, my most amiable Saviour, over how many,
what rough and craggy mountains, hast Thou had to
pass in order to come and unite Thyself to me by the
means of this Most Holy Sacrament! Thou, from
<pb n='620'/><anchor id='Pg620'/>
being God, hadst to become man; from being immense,
to become a babe; from being Lord, to become
a servant. Thou hadst to pass from the bosom
of Thy eternal Father to the womb of a Virgin; from
heaven into a stable; from the throne of glory to the
gibbet of a criminal. And on this very morning
Thou wilt come from Thy seat in heaven to dwell in
my bosom.
</p>

<p>
<q>Behold He standeth behind our wall, looking
through the windows, looking through the lattices,</q>
Cant. ii. 9. Behold, O my soul, thy loving Jesus,
burning with the same love with which He loved
thee when dying for thee on the cross, is now concealed
in the Most Blessed Sacrament under the
sacred species: and what doing? <q>Looking through
the lattices.</q> As an ardent lover, desirous to see
his love corresponded with, from the Host, as from
within closed lattices, whence He sees without being
seen, He is looking at you, who are this morning
about to feed upon His divine flesh. He observes
your thoughts, what it is that you love, what you desire,
what you seek for, and what offerings you are
about to make Him.
</p>

<p>
Awake, then, my soul, and prepare to meet thy
Jesus; and, in the first place, by faith say to Him:
So, then, my beloved Redeemer, in a few moments
Thou art coming to me? O hidden God, unknown
to the greater part of men, I believe, I confess, I adore
Thee in the Most Holy Sacrament as my Lord and
Saviour! And in acknowledgment of this truth I
would willingly lay down my life. Thou comest to
enrich me with Thy graces, and to unite Thyself all
to me; how great, then, should be my confidence in
this Thy so loving visit!
</p>

<pb n='621'/><anchor id='Pg621'/>

<p>
Act Of Confidence.
</p>

<p>
My soul, expand thy heart. Thy Jesus can do thee
every good, and, indeed, loves thee. Hope
thou for great things from this thy Lord, Who, urged
by love, comes all love to thee. Yes, my dear Jesus,
my hope, I trust in Thy goodness, that, in giving
Thyself to me this morning, Thou wilt enkindle in
my poor heart the beautiful flame of Thy pure love,
and a real desire to please Thee; so that, from this
day forward, I may never will anything but what
Thou willest.
</p>

<p>
Act Of Love.
</p>

<p>
Ah, my God, my God, true and only love of
my soul, and what more couldst Thou have
done to be loved by me? To die for me was not
enough for Thee, my Lord; Thou wast pleased to
institute this great Sacrament in order to give Thyself
all to me, and thus bind and unite Thyself heart
to heart with so loathsome and ungrateful a creature
as I am. And what is more, Thou Thyself invitest
me to receive Thee, and desirest so much that I
should do so! O boundless love! incomprehensible
love! infinite love! a God would give Himself all
to me!
</p>

<p>
My soul, believest thou this? And what doest
thou? what sayest thou? O God, O God, O infinite
amiability, only worthy object of all loves, I
love Thee with my whole heart, I love Thee above
all things, I love Thee more than myself, more than
my life! Oh, could I but see Thee loved by all!
Oh, could I but cause Thee to be loved by all hearts
as much as Thou deservest! I love Thee, O most
<pb n='622'/><anchor id='Pg622'/>
amiable God, and I unite my miserable heart in loving
Thee, to the hearts of the seraphim, to the
heart of the most blessed Virgin Mary, to the Heart
of Jesus, Thy most loving and beloved Son. So
that, O infinite good, I love Thee with the love
with which the saints, with which Mary, with which
Jesus love Thee. And I love Thee only because
Thou art worthy of it, and to give Thee pleasure.
Depart, all earthly affections, which are not for God,
depart, from my heart. Mother of fair love, most
holy Virgin Mary, help me to love that God Whom
thou dost so ardently desire to see loved!
</p>

<p>
Act Of Humility.
</p>

<p>
Then, my soul, thou art even now about to feed
on the most sacred flesh of Jesus! And art
thou worthy? My God, and who am I, and Who art
Thou? I indeed know and confess Whom Thou art
Who givest Thyself to me; but dost Thou know
what I am who am about to receive Thee?
</p>

<p>
And is it possible, O my Jesus, that Thou Who art
infinite purity desirest to come and reside in this soul
of mine, which has been so many times the dwelling
of Thy enemy, and soiled with so many sins? I
know, O my Lord, Thy great majesty and my misery;
I am ashamed to appear before Thee. Reverence
would induce me to keep at a distance from Thee;
but if I depart from Thee, O my life, whither shall
I go? to whom shall I have recourse? and what
will become of me? No, never will I depart from
Thee; nay, even I will ever draw nearer and nearer
to Thee. Thou art satisfied that I should receive
Thee as food, Thou even invitest me to this. I
<pb n='623'/><anchor id='Pg623'/>
come then, O my amiable Saviour, I come to receive
Thee this morning, all humbled and confused at the
sight of my defects; but full of confidence in Thy
tender mercy, and in the love which Thou bearest
me.
</p>

<p>
Act Of Contrition.
</p>

<p>
I am indeed grieved, O God of my soul, for not
having loved Thee during the time past; still worse,
so far from loving Thee, and to gratify my own inclinations,
I have greatly offended and outraged Thy
infinite goodness: I have turned my back against
Thee, I have despised Thy grace and friendship; in
fine, O my God, I was deliberately in the will to
lose Thee. Lord, I am sorry, and grieve for it with
my whole heart. I detest the sins which I have
committed, be they great or small, as the greatest of
all my misfortunes, because I have thereby offended
Thee, O infinite goodness. I trust that Thou hast
already forgiven me; but if Thou has not yet pardoned
me, oh, do so before I receive Thee: wash
with Thy blood this soul of mine, in which Thou
art so soon about to dwell.
</p>

<p>
Act Of Desire.
</p>

<p>
And now, my soul, the blessed hour is arrived
in which Jesus will come and take up His dwelling
in thy poor heart. Behold the King of heaven,
behold thy Redeemer and God, Who is even now
coming; prepare thyself to receive Him with love,
invite Him with the ardor of thy desire; come, O
my Jesus, come to my soul, which desires Thee. Before
Thou givest Thyself to me, I desire to give
<pb n='624'/><anchor id='Pg624'/>
Thee, and I now give Thee, my miserable heart; do
Thou accept it, and come quickly to take possession
of it.
</p>

<p>
Come, my God! hasten; delay no longer. My
only and infinite good, my treasure, my life, my
paradise, my love, my all, my wish is to receive
Thee with the love with which the most holy and
loving souls have received Thee; with that with
which the most blessed Virgin Mary received Thee;
with their communions I unite this one of mine.
</p>

<p>
Most holy Virgin and my Mother Mary, behold, I
already approach to receive thy Son. Would that I
had the heart and love with which thou didst communicate!
Give me this morning thy Jesus, as thou
didst give Him to the shepherds and to the kings.
I intend to receive Him from thy most pure hands.
Tell Him that I am thy servant and thy client; for
He will thus look upon me with a more loving eye,
and now that He is coming, will press me more
closely to Himself.
</p>

<p>
After Communion.
</p>

<p>
Act Of Welcome.
</p>

<p>
Ah, my Jesus, my love, my infinite good, my
all, be ever welcome in the poor dwelling of
my soul! Ah, my Lord, where art Thou! to what a
place art Thou come! Thou hast entered my heart,
which is far worse than the stable in which Thou
wast born; it is full of earthly affections, of self-love,
and of inordinate desires. And how couldst Thou
come to dwell there? I would address Thee with
St. Peter: <q>Depart from me, for I am a sinful man.</q>&mdash;St.
Luke v. 8. Yes, depart from me, O Lord,
<pb n='625'/><anchor id='Pg625'/>
for I am indeed unworthy to receive a God of infinite
goodness; go and find repose in those pure
souls who serve Thee with so much love. But no,
my Redeemer; what do I say? Leave me not; for
if Thou departest, I am lost. I embrace Thee, my
life; I cling to Thee. Mad indeed have I been in
having separated myself from Thee for the love of
creatures; and in my ingratitude I drove Thee from
me. But now I will never more separate myself
from Thee, my treasure; I desire to live and die
united to Thee. Most blessed Virgin Mary, seraphim,
and all souls, do you who love God with pure
love lend me your affections, that I may worthily
attend on my beloved Lord.
</p>

<p>
Loving Aspirations To Jesus In The Blessed
Sacrament.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
They can be used either before or after communion, or in
visiting the Blessed Sacrament.
</quote>

<p>
1. <q>Go forth, ye daughters of Sion, and see
King Solomon in the diadem wherewith
his mother crowned him in the day of his
espousals.</q>&mdash;Cant. iii. 11. O daughters of grace,
O ye souls who love God, quit the darkness of earth,
and behold Jesus, your King, crowned with a crown
of thorns; the crown of contempt and suffering with
which the impious synagogue, His mother, crowned
Him on the day of His espousals,&mdash;that is to say, on
the day of His death, by the means of which He
espoused Himself on the cross to our souls. Go
forth again, my soul, and behold Him all full of compassion
and love, now that He comes to unite Himself
to Thee in this Sacrament of love.
</p>

<pb n='626'/><anchor id='Pg626'/>

<p>
Has it indeed, then, cost Thee so much, my beloved
Jesus, before Thou couldst come and unite
Thyself to souls in this Most Sweet Sacrament? Wast
Thou indeed obliged to suffer so bitter and ignominious
a death? Oh, come, then, without delay and
unite Thyself to my soul also. It was at one time
Thy enemy by sin; but now Thou desirest to espouse
it by Thy grace. Come, O Jesus, my Spouse, for
nevermore will I betray Thee; I am determined to
be ever faithful to Thee. As a loving spouse, my
whole thought shall be to find out Thy pleasure. I
am determined to love Thee without reserve; I desire
to be all Thine, my Jesus&mdash;all, all, all.
</p>

<p>
2. <q>A bundle of myrrh is my Beloved to me;
He shall abide between my breasts.</q>&mdash;Cant.
i. 12. The myrrh plant when pricked sends
forth tears, and a healthful liquor from the wounds.
Before His Passion, our Jesus determined to pour
forth His divine blood from His wounds in so painful
a way, to give it afterwards all to us for our salvation
in this bread of life. Come, then, O my beloved
bundle of myrrh, O my enamored Jesus; Thou art
indeed a subject of grief and pity to me, when I consider
Thee all wounded for me on the cross; but then,
when I receive Thee in this Most Sweet Sacrament,
Thou becomest, indeed, to me more sweet and delicious
than a bunch of the choicest grapes can be to
one who is parched with thirst: <q>A cluster of
cypress my love is to me, in the vineyards of Engaddi.</q>&mdash;Cant.
i. 13. Come, then, to my soul,
and revive and satiate me with Thy holy love. Ah,
what sweetness do I feel in my soul at the thought,
that I have to receive within myself that same Saviour
<pb n='627'/><anchor id='Pg627'/>
of mine Who for my salvation was pleased to be
drained of all His blood, and sacrificed on a cross!
<q>He shall abide between my breasts.</q> No, my
Jesus, nevermore will I drive Thee hence; and Thou
shalt nevermore have to leave me. I am determined
ever to love Thee, and to be always united to and
closely bound up with Thee. I will always belong
to Jesus, and Jesus will be always mine; forever, forever,
forever <q>He shall abide between my breasts.</q>
</p>

<p>
Act Of Thanksgiving.
</p>

<p>
My God and Lord, I thank Thee for the grace
which Thou hast this morning bestowed upon
me, of coming to dwell in my soul; but I would
wish to thank Thee in a manner worthy of Thee and
of the great favor which Thou hast done me. But
what do I say? how can such a miserable creature as
I am ever worthily thank Thee?
</p>

<p>
Father Segneri says that the feeling most becoming
a soul who communicates is that of wondering
astonishment at the thought, and to repeat, <q>A God
is united to me; a God is mine!</q> David said,
<q>What shall I render to the Lord for all the things
that He hath rendered to me?</q>&mdash;Ps. cxv. 12. But
I! what return shall I make to Thee, my Jesus, Who,
after having given me so many of Thy good things,
hast this morning, moreover, given me Thyself?
My soul, bless, then, and thank thy God as best thou
canst. And thou, my Mother Mary, my holy advocates,
my guardian angel, and all ye souls who love
God, <q>Come and hear, all ye that fear God, and I
will tell you what great things He hath done for my
soul.</q>&mdash;Ps. lxv. 16. Come and bless and thank my
<pb n='628'/><anchor id='Pg628'/>
God for me, admiring and praising the truly great
graces which He has granted me.
</p>

<p>
Act Of Oblation.
</p>

<p>
<q>My Beloved to me, and I to Him.</q>&mdash;Cant. ii.
16. Should a king go to visit a poor shepherd
in his hut, what can the shepherd offer him
other than his whole hut, such as it is? Since, then,
O Jesus, my divine King, Thou hast come to visit
the poor house of my soul, I offer and give Thee
this house and my entire self, together with my liberty
and will: <q>My Beloved to me, and I to Him.</q>
Thou hast given Thyself all to me; I give myself all
to Thee. My Jesus, from this day forward I will be
no longer mine; I will be Thine, and all Thine.
May my senses be Thine, that they may only serve
me to please Thee. And what greater pleasure,
says St. Peter of Alcantara, can be found than that
of pleasing Thee, most amiable, most loving, most
gracious God? I at the same time give Thee all the
powers of my soul, and I will that they shall be all
Thine; my memory I will only use to recall to mind
Thy benefits and Thy love; my understanding I will
only use to think of Thee, Who always thinkest of my
good; my will I will only use to love Thee, my God,
my all, and to will only that which Thou willest.
My most sweet Lord, I offer, then, and consecrate
to Thee this morning all that I am and have,&mdash;my
senses, my thoughts, my affections, my desires, my
pleasures, my inclinations, my liberty, in a word, I
place my whole body and soul in Thy hands.
</p>

<p>
Accept, O infinite majesty, the sacrifice of the
hitherto most ungrateful sinner Thou hast ever had
<pb n='629'/><anchor id='Pg629'/>
on earth; but who now offers and gives himself all
to Thee. Do with me and dispose of me, O Lord,
as Thou pleasest.
</p>

<p>
Come, O consuming fire, O divine love! and
consume in me all which is mine, and which is displeasing
in Thy most pure eyes, so that from henceforward
I may be all Thine, and may live only to
execute, not Thy commands and counsels alone, but
all Thy holy desires and good pleasure also. Amen.
</p>

<p>
O most holy Mary, do thou present this offering
of mine to the most Blessed Trinity with thine own
hands; and do thou obtain their acceptance of it,
and that they may grant me the grace to be faithful
unto death. Amen, amen, amen.
</p>

<p>
Act Of Petition.
</p>

<p>
O my soul, what art thou doing? The present is
no time to be lost: it is a precious time, in
which thou canst receive all the graces which thou
askest. Seest thou not the eternal Father, Who is
lovingly beholding thee? for within thee He sees
His beloved Son, the dearest object of His love.
Drive, then, far from thee all other thoughts; rekindle
thy faith, enlarge thy heart, and ask for whatever
thou willest.
</p>

<p>
Hearest thou not Jesus Himself Who thus addresses
thee: <q>What wilt thou that I should do to thee?</q>&mdash;St.
Mark x. 51. O soul, tell me what dost thou
desire of Me? I am come for the express purpose
of enriching and gratifying thee; ask with confidence,
and thou wilt receive all.
</p>

<p>
Ah! my most sweet Saviour, since Thou hast
come into my heart in order to grant me graces, and
<pb n='630'/><anchor id='Pg630'/>
desirest that I should ask Thee for them, I ask Thee
not for the goods of the earth&mdash;riches, honors, or
pleasures; but grant me, I beseech Thee, intense
sorrow for the displeasures I have caused Thee; impart
to me so clear a light, that I may know the
vanity of this world, and how deserving Thou art of
love. Change this heart of mine, detach it from all
earthly affections; give me a heart conformable in
all things to Thy holy will, that it may seek only for
that which is more pleasing to Thee, and have no
other desire than Thy holy love: <q>Create a clean
heart in me, O God.</q>&mdash;Ps. l. 12.
</p>

<p>
I deserve not this; but Thou, my Jesus, deservest
it, since Thou art come to dwell in my soul: I ask it
of Thee through Thy merits, and those of Thy most
holy Mother, and by the love which Thou bearest to
Thy eternal Father.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Here pause, to ask Jesus for some other particular grace for
yourself and for your neighbors. Do not forget poor sinners, or
the souls in purgatory.
</quote>

<p>
Eternal Father, Jesus Christ Himself, Thy Son, has
said: <q>Amen, amen, I say to you, if you ask the
Father anything in My name, He will give it you.</q>
For the love, then, of this Son, Whom I now hold
within my breast, do Thou graciously hear me and
grant my petition.
</p>

<p>
My most sweet loves, Jesus and Mary, may I
suffer for you, may I die for you; may I be all yours,
and in nothing my own! May the Most Blessed
Sacrament ever be thanked and praised! Blessed be
the holy and immaculate conception of the Blessed
Virgin Mary!
</p>

<pb n='631'/><anchor id='Pg631'/>

<p>
Acts Of The Love Of God.
</p>

<p>
1. My God, my sovereign good, would that I had
always loved Thee!
</p>

<p>
2. My God, I detest the time in which I loved
Thee not.
</p>

<p>
3. How have I lived so long without Thy holy
love!
</p>

<p>
4. And Thou, my God, how hast Thou borne with
me!
</p>

<p>
5. I thank Thee, O my God, for so much patience.
</p>

<p>
6. Now I desire to love Thee forever.
</p>

<p>
7. I would rather die than cease to love Thee.
</p>

<p>
8. My God, deprive me of life rather than permit
that I should cease to love Thee.
</p>

<p>
9. The grace I ask of thee is, that I may always
love Thee.
</p>

<p>
10. With Thy love I shall be happy.
</p>

<p>
Glory be to the Father.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
1. My God, I desire to see Thee loved by all men.
</p>

<p>
2. I should consider it a happiness to give my
blood, in order that all men may love Thee.
</p>

<p>
3. Blind are they who love Thee not.
</p>

<p>
4. Enlighten them, O my God.
</p>

<p>
5. Not to love Thee, O sovereign good, is the
only evil to be feared.
</p>

<p>
6. Never will I be of the number of those blind
souls who love Thee not.
</p>

<p>
7. Thou, O my God, art my joy and all my
good.
</p>

<p>
8. I desire to be wholly Thine forever.
</p>

<p>
9. Who shall ever be able to separate me from
Thy love?
</p>

<pb n='632'/><anchor id='Pg632'/>

<p>
10. Come, all created beings; come, all of you,
and love my God.
</p>

<p>
Glory be to the Father.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
1. My God, would that I had a thousand hearts
to love Thee!
</p>

<p>
2. Would that I had the hearts of all men to love
Thee!
</p>

<p>
3. How I should rejoice were there many worlds,
who might all love Thee!
</p>

<p>
4. I should be happy if I could love Thee with
the heart of all possible creatures.
</p>

<p>
5. Thou, indeed, dost merit it, O my God!
</p>

<p>
6. My heart is too poor and too cold to love
Thee!
</p>

<p>
7. O woful insensibility of man, in regard of this
sovereign good!
</p>

<p>
8. Oh, the blindness of worldlings, who know not
true love!
</p>

<p>
9. O blessed inhabitants of heaven, who know it
and love it!
</p>

<p>
10. O happy necessity, to love God!
</p>

<p>
Glory be to the Father.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
1. O my God, when shall I burn with love for
Thee?
</p>

<p>
2. Oh, how happy would be my lot!
</p>

<p>
3. But since I know not how to love Thee, I can
rejoice at this, that so many others love Thee with all
their hearts.
</p>

<p>
4. I rejoice at this particularly, that the angels and
saints love Thee in heaven.
</p>

<p>
5. I unite my feeble heart to their inflamed
hearts.
</p>

<pb n='633'/><anchor id='Pg633'/>

<p>
6. Would that I could love Thee as well as those
saints who have been most inflamed with love for
Thee!
</p>

<p>
7. Would that I had for Thee a love similar to
that of St. Mary Magdalene, St. Catharine, and St.
Teresa!
</p>

<p>
8. Or such as that of St. Augustine, St. Dominic,
St. Francis Xavier, St. Philip Neri, St. Aloysius
Gonzaga.
</p>

<p>
9. Or as that which was entertained for Thee by
the holy apostles; and particularly by St. Peter, St.
Paul, and the beloved disciple.
</p>

<p>
10. Or, in fine, as that with which the great patriarch
St. Joseph loved Thee.
</p>

<p>
Glory be to the Father.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
1. Would, moreover, that I could love Thee as the
Blessed Virgin loved Thee upon earth!
</p>

<p>
2. As she loved Thee, particularly when she conceived
Thy divine Son in her virginal womb, when
she brought Him into the world, when she nourished
Him with her milk, and when she saw Him die.
</p>

<p>
3. Would that I could love Thee as she loves
Thee now, and as she will love Thee forever in
heaven!
</p>

<p>
4. But to love Thee as Thou deservest to be loved,
O God, infinitely good, even this would not suffice.
</p>

<p>
5. I should wish, moreover, to love Thee as the
divine Word made man loved Thee.
</p>

<p>
6. As He loved Thee at His birth.
</p>

<p>
7. As He loved Thee expiring on the cross.
</p>

<p>
8. As He loves Thee continually in the tabernacles
where He lies hid.
</p>

<p>
9. As He loves and shall love Thee forever.
</p>

<pb n='634'/><anchor id='Pg634'/>

<p>
10. In fine, my God, I wish to love Thee as Thou
lovest us; but since that is impossible, grant that I
may love Thee as well as I know how, as much as I
can, and as much as Thou wishest me. Amen.
</p>

<p>
Glory be to the Father.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Then say the following prayer:
</quote>

<p>
O God, Who hast prepared invisible rewards for
those who love Thee, pour forth some of Thy love
into our hearts, to the end that, loving Thee in all
and above all, we may obtain the accomplishment of
Thy promises, which surpass all desire; through Our
Lord Jesus Christ, etc.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
You may also add the following:
</quote>

<p>
Lift up thine eyes, O my soul; behold and see
the power of thy King, the grace of thy God,
the love of thy Saviour, now that thou art so near to
Him. Take now thy rest, taste and see how fair and
how comely is the Spouse thou hast chosen. See
what the delights are of that country towards which
thou art sighing. See how fair the splendor of that
crown for which thou toilest. See what is the essence
and what the infinite grandeur of thy God, Whom
thou hast loved, Whom thou hast worshipped, for
Whom thou hast constantly longed.
</p>

<p>
O God of my life, what praises worthy of Thee can
I offer Thee? Truly I know not. What shall I
render unto Thee, O my well-beloved, for all the
benefits wherewith Thou hast overwhelmed me?
Thou in me, and I in Thee, O Jesus, my one good;
this is the thank-offering I set before Thy glory. I
have nothing else beside. My one only offering is
what I am in Thee, my life in Thee.
</p>

<pb n='635'/><anchor id='Pg635'/>

<p>
O God, Thou sacred object of my love, expand
my heart in Thee, enlarge my soul, and fill me with
Thy glory. Oh, when shall it be said unto my soul:
<q>Turn again into thy rest, for the Lord hath dealt
bountifully with thee</q>? When, oh, when shall I
hear that blissful word: <q>Come, enter into the holy
place of the rest of thy Spouse</q>? O Jesus? my
sweetest peace, when shall I lay me down and take
my rest in Thee, whilst Thou showest me all Thy
glory?
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Pius VII., by a rescript, Aug. 11, 1818, granted an indulgence
of three hundred days to all the faithful who should recite,
with a contrite heart, a succession of acts of the love of
God, arranged in form of a crown, with five Glory be to the
Fathers, etc. By saying them ten times a month for a whole
year, a person may gain a plenary indulgence on any day he
may choose; confession, communion, and prayers according
to the Pope's intentions being supposed.
</quote>

</div>

</div>

<div>
<p>
[Transcriber's Note: Obvious printer's errors have been corrected.]
</p>
</div>
</body>
<back rend="page-break-before: right">
  <div id="footnotes">
    <index index="toc" />
    <index index="pdf" />
    <head>Footnotes</head>
    <divGen type="footnotes"/>
  </div>
  <div rend="page-break-before: right">
    <divGen type="pgfooter" />
  </div>
</back>
</text>
</TEI.2>
